About Gary De'Snake (from Concept Art, Zootopia Wiki, and Heroes Wiki)
Concept Art Description:
Snakes are scary, especially venomous ones, but not Gary. He's nice! We chose a pit viper for its feather-like scales and unique blue coloring unlike any mammal in Zootopia. We pushed his anatomy, adding big, friendly eyes, like Judy's, with innocent, kid-like expressions and a second, humanlike tongue to make the audience feel comfortable and not threatened when he spoke.
Brief Description:
Gary De'Snake is one of the two tritagonists (alongside Nibbles Maplestick) of Disney's 64th full-length animated feature film, Zootopia 2, the second installment of the Zootopia franchise.
He is a blue pit viper snake who is the great grandson of Agnes De'Snake, the true founder of Zootopia's climate walls whose credit was stolen by Ebenezer Lynxley, who painted all reptiles in a bad reputation. Because of this, he sets out on a journey to find his family's journal to prove that all reptiles, including her, are innocent while exposing the lies of the Lynxleys.
He is also a good friend of Judy Hopps, Nick Wilde and Nibbles Maplestick, all of whom have aided him for his quest to vindicate his reptilian kind.
He is voiced by Ke Huy Quan, who played Short Round in Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, Data Wang in The Goonies, Waymond Wang in Everything Everywhere All At Once, Ouroboros in Loki, Han in Kung Fu Panda 4, and Marvin Gable in Love Hurts. In Japanese, he is voiced by Hiro Shimono, who also played Zenitsu Agatsuma from Demon Slayer series and Lyney Snezhevich from Genshin Impact.
In the Korean dub, he's dubbed by Jeon Tae-yeol, who also voices Sammy from Miniforce, SpongeBob SquarePants from the titular series, Plagg, his movie counterpart and Pegasus from Miraculous Ladybug, and Obanai Iguro from the theatrical version of Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba - the Mugen Train.
Physical Appearance:
Gary is an approximately 10-meter-long, or 33-foot-long,[3] blue-scaled pit viper[1] with a single fang (he used to have two fangs, but the left one came off when it got lodged in Chief Bogo's head after an accidental bite). His eyes' sclera are yellow and feature thin green irises with black vertical slited pupils, and, like all pit vipers, has a small set of pit organs next to where his nostrils are. His scales come in a range of blue hues, with his topside having a coat of triangular, keeled, cerulean blue scales; and his ventral scales an aero blue blended together in a faint blue-green gradient. Unusually, a has both a human-like tongue and a snake tongue. This snake tongue occasionally flicks out of his mouth as is common with snakes.
Personality:
Gary is resourceful and very optimistic, even in hopeless situations where it seems obvious he is doomed. He is also naive and quick to consider new animals as good friends, and shows a childlike curiosity when experiencing new things. He has a deep love and devotion for his family, and is willing to risk his life as many times as he can to give them the life he feels they deserve.
Biography:
Living somewhere overseas, Gary learns that the Lynxley Journal is set to be displayed at the Zootennial Gala. Knowing that the journal has a secret, he sends the Lynxley Family a letter asking them to show it to him. Pawbert Lynxley is the first one to see the letter, and arranges for Gary to be smuggled into Zootopia with help from Antony Snootley. He spends the following week in a crate before reaching the city, and is then driven by Antony in his Stolen van. After Antony is pursued in a car chase by Judy Hopps and Nick Wilde, Gary quickly slithers out of the van, and his shed snakeskin is discovered by Judy.
Judy gathers what she believes to be evidence of a plan by a snake to attack at the gala, and she and Nick go there undercover, where Nick inadvertently forces Gary out of hiding. Gary is revealed to all the guests, who panic as he abducts Milton Lynxley and steals the journal. Judy chases them and corners them in Milton's study, where Gary claims that the Lynxleys are the ones that are in the wrong, and that he can use the journal to clear the bad reputation of snakes and help his family return home. Judy decides to believe him, but Nick catches up and knocks out Gary with a frying pan. Milton arrives with Cattrick and Kitty, ordering them to kill Gary and burn the journal. Determined to protect Gary and the journal, Judy flings some coals from the study's fireplace and lights the rug on fire to keep them away. As Nick opens a window and helps Judy carry Gary out of it, the rush of cold air jerks a confused Gary awake, causing him to flail around. As he does so, Chief Bogo bursts in and Gary accidentally bites him. Bogo faints after being injected with Gary's venom. Gary promises he can be saved with antivenom, but Cattrick suddenly frames Judy and Nick of helping Gary kill Bogo, and Judy, Nick, and Gary jump out the window and flee the gala, becoming fugitives. Gary is then separated from them as Pawbert arrives, puts him in his motorcycle, and drives away.
After another brief appearance in Marsh Market alongside Pawbert, Gary confronts Judy and Nick outside the Reptile Hangout and snatches the journal from them. Judy tries to tell him she wants to help him, but he quickly flees. Judy and Nick chase him around the neighborhood and he ends up at the Tube Station. He swallows the journal and leaps into the Red Line's water tube, which is a drowning hazard. Judy and Nick follow him in, and as they travel through the tube, Judy manages to grab him by the tail. However, she loses consciousness, and Nick helps her escape through an exit valve, taking Gary's fanny pack with them.
Gary and Pawbert show up again at Honeymoon Lodge, and try to save Judy when the lodge falls apart. Judy is hit with a tranquilizer dart and falls and Gary helps Pawbert reach her. She passes out, and they take her away. As they ride through the desert, Judy wakes up, and Gary is excited to see she isn't dead. Later that night, they reach Pawbert's hideout in a secluded campsite. Gary assures Judy that they shall succeed in stopping the Lynxleys' evil deeds and save Nick, and properly introduces himself before coughing up the journal onto her. When Judy is frightened of thier close proximity, Gary shows her his Anti-Venom Pen that can cure viper bites. As they enter Pawbert's tent, Gary is excited to check out Pawbert's things and plays around with them as Pawbert tries to stop him. He and Pawbert explain to Judy how they met, and Pawbert lights a bonfire to put the journal next to so Gary can use his heat-sensing abilities to reveal the journal's secret - Ebenezer Lynxley is not the true creator of Zootopia or the inventor of the Weather walls. These honors go to Gary's great-grandmother, Agnes De'Snake. Agnes dreamed of making her city a place where all animals felt welcome, and created the weather walls to make that happen. She asked Ebenezer to be her investor and partner, but he plotted to steal her plans for himself by burning her original patent in the fireplace. He also murdered his family maid and blamed it on Agnes. The maid recovered her patent before she died, which Agnes hid in her home before she was arrested. Ebenezer then used the weather walls to expand Tundratown by burying Reptile Ravine in snow, forcing all the reptiles in Zootopia to flee. Judy deduces that if they can find Agnes's home, they can find her patent to prove the Lynxleys are frauds. Gary draws what he sees and reveals the location of the buried district, and Judy realizes that the clock tower Gary drew is the same one from a photo she saved from Gary's hideout from Honeymoon Lodge, which they can follow to her home by turning Reptile Ravine's power back on with instructions from the journal. Looking through the journal, she finds the control room is in the Desert-Tundratown weather wall.
On the ride there, Gary reassures and anxious Judy that they will succeed, saying that his family wouldn't want one animal to put the weight of the world on their shoulders alone. The three arrive at the Burning Mammal festival and have to make their way through it to reach the weather wall. The ZPD catch up to them, and Judy realizes they were tracking Pawbert through his phone. A chase ensues through the festival, and Milton orders Captain Hoggbottom to kill the three. A hesitant Hoggbottom ends up firing a lethal poison dart at Pawbert and Gary, and Judy jumps in front of them to save them. Suddenly, Flash Slothmore shows up in Flash's carwith Nick and Nibbles Maplestick in tow. The dart lands on the car and the distraction allows Pawbert, Judy, and Gary to escape and enter the weather wall. They rush to the control room, and get free rein of it when Gary's presence frightens off the workers. The door gets stuck open and lets in a freezing gust of wind, harming a cold-blooded Gary, but he tells a worried Judy to find the switch. He and Pawbert help Judy pull it, and they are all relieved to see the clock tower has lit up. Pawbert suddenly betrays them, and stabs Judy in the neck with a snake venom injector. Gary lunges at him, but Pawbert grabs him and throws him outside in a pile of snow. He reveals that he needed them to find Agnes's home so he can burn her patent to prove himself to his family and belong. Pawbert then takes Gary's fanny pack containing Gary's antivenom and leaves to kill Nick as well. As Gary and Judy lose their strength, Gary slowly moves toward her and reiterates that the world was never meant to be on one animal's shoulders, and Agnes wanted Zootopia to be for everyone so they could all help each other. Judy tearfully says she didn't help anyone, which Gary denies, saying he helped him and became his best warm-blooded friend. He senses her body heat and asks for permission to hug her, which he gets. Absorbing her body heat gives him his strength back, but Judy's condition suddenly worsens. The ZPD burst into the control room, assuming Gary is trying to eat Judy. Gary tries to explain himself, but is forced to fight them off.
Gary notices a security camera and sees Pawbert, who is fighting Nick on an unstable ice ledge, with his fanny pack wrapped around his waist. He calls out to Nick and tells him Judy can be saved with the Anti-Venom Pen. Nick manages to get the pen and throws it to Gary, who stabs it into Judy's heart. Judy immediately recovers, knocks down several police officers, and rushes out to save Nick. When the ice ledge breaks and Nick and Pawbert fall, Gary and Judy save Nick. When Judy and Nick reunite, Gary leaves to save Nibbles (who Pawbert injected with Snake Venom earlier), who then informs them that Pawbert survived the fall and is getting away. Pawbert takes a snowmobile, and Gary, Judy, Nick and Nibbles take another one to follow him. They arrive at the Lynxley Manor, and Gary and Nibbles try to fight off the Lynxleys while Judy and Nick go after Pawbert, with eventual help from Brian Winddancer. Gary and Nibbles help Judy and Nick take down Pawbert shortly after, and when Pawbert says nothing they do matters, Judy says it matters to Gary, and the four heroes make their way to Reptile Ravine. Gary is elated to see the district light up and marvels at his surroundings. He finds the De'Snake family home, and happily looks back at his three new friends before taking a deep breath and entering. He gets emotional as he looks around and sees where and how his ancestors lived, and finds a box that appears in the clock tower photo, which contains Agnes's original patent. Pawbert suddenly appears and flings a lantern their way in one more desperate attempt to burn it all down, but he is quickly knocked out by Hoggbottom.
After the Lynxleys are exposed and arrested, Gary accompanies Judy, Nick, Benjamin Clawhauser, and Officer Moledebrandt to visit Bogo in the hospital, where he presents Bogo with an apology drawing. He later kicks off the reopening of Reptile Ravine, building of statue of Agnes, finally giving her the recognition and throws a party at the De'Snake home where reptiles and mammals come together to celebrate. His family arrives, and they happily reunite and greet each other with a group hug. He introduces them to Judy, and all the snakes hug her too for saving them and their kind before they leave to spend time together. In the film's end credits, Gary dances with Judy, Nick, and Nibbles at Burning Mammal for Gazelle's hit song "Zoo".
Quotes:
Hurt him? Snakes never hurt anyone. We aren't the bad guys. They are. And this journal holds the secret that will prove it. I have to prove it. Please. This is our only chance to set things right. And when I do, my family will finally be able to come home.
Cold!
He'll be okay! Anti-venom. He can be saved with anti-venom.
Wait, wait, wait! I need the journal and probably a sweater! [Shivering as he hits the ground below] Cold!
I'm really sorry, but this is my family's only chance to come home!
Cannonball!
I told you she's helping.
They already have your partner. They can't get you too.
You're not dead! Ha ha! [To Pawbert] She's not dead!
Ooo! Yeah, yeah.
We shall succeed, Judy Hopps. We'll stop the lynxes and save your partner.
[Judy Hopps: I'm sorry. You are...?] Oh, Gary. Gary De'Snake. ['Judy Hopps: And your last name?] De'Snake. Everything is gonna be okay. [Smiling comfortingly, until he regurgitates the journal]
Teaming up with you is very exciting! And don't worry about my fang. I got my own anti-venom pen. Stops the toxin! [Anti-Venom pen: Stab me straight into the heart!]
[Checking out cat objects] Wow! Neat! Oooo, awesome! [He starts playing with Pawbert's cat toys]
Wow! Mammals get the best stuff! Ooo, what's this do?!
Oh, when I found out the journal was gonna be on display at the Gala, I sent his family an anonymous letter asking to see it. Luckily, they make Pawbert work in the mailroom, so he read it first.
Seven days in a crate. But if I fix things for my family, it'll be worth it. Then we'll fix things for your partner too.
Light the fire.
We just didn't know where her home was buried, until now.
Great! And where is that?
And my family is finally coming home! We will succeed, Judy Hopps! We shall succeed!
We shall succeed, Judy Hopps.
My family's been trying to prove we're not what everyone thinks for 100 years. But even this close, they'd never want me to put the weight of the world on my shoulders. Because I don't have any shoulders! We shall succeed.
What festival is this?
COLD!
Don’t worry about me! Find the switch!
No!
We... shall... succeed... Judy...
Judy, the world was never meant to be... on one animal's shoulders. That's why... my great-grandma wanted Zootopia to be... for everyone. So we could all... help each other. [Judy Hopps: I... didn't help.] You did. You chose to help... me... and became... my best warm-blooded friend. Very warm... Permission to hug?
We're gonna save you and save your friend!
Judy? Aah!
No, wait! I-I'm saving her! I'm gonna get her the anti-pen!
No!
Anti-venom! You can save her with the anti-venom! Throw me the pen!
I'll... help your friend.
[Arriving with Nibbles] Howdy, partner! [Hisses in his ear, as Pawbert shrieks]
Daddy's busy!
Here, kitty, kitty!
How's everyone doing? Ooh, one sec.
This is my family. Permission to hug? [Judy nods, and the De'Snake family hug her] Thank you.
Trivia:
Gary was the first reptile to be revealed in the Zootopia franchise.
The filmmakers have regarded Gary as the first of his kind: a snake in the role of a Disney Animated protagonist, as other Disney snake characters were written as either an antagonist (Kaa, Sir Hiss, and Jafar) or a supporting character (Juju).
Gary made a surprise Easter egg in the credits of Moana 2.
His full name is a pun on "Gary the snake". This is also highlighted in the film, because when Gary officially introduces himself to Judy, she initially thinks he is going to say 'Gary the snake,' which is why she then asks him for his last name, to which he confirms that his last name is indeed 'De'Snake'.
The casting of Quan as Gary was inspired by the filmmakers watching the actor's 2023 interview on The Late Show With Stephen Colbert and decided he had exactly the right energy to play the character.[4][5]
According to Jared Bush, Gary has "pretty much" the exact same personality as his actor.[1]
Gary will also likely be (so far) the only animal in Zootopia to not wear clothes outside The Mystic Spring Oasis.
In a tweet, Bush stated that Gary's performance contains homages to previous snake characters of past animated Disney films.[6]
Although it is not stated what specific species of pit viper he is, the color of his eyes and scales are shared with those of the Lesser Sunda Islands pit viper; notably, blue scales are much rarer than the predominant green within the population, due to a recessive genetic variant called axanthism. Gary lacks the red tail tip of the Sunda Island pit viper and the red sclera of blue individuals, suggesting he may be anerythristic (lacking red pigment) as well as axanthic (lacking yellow pigment).
In the teaser trailer, when Judy and Nick are carrying Gary away from their fellow cops, Gary freezes stiff when they reach Tundratown, likely a reference to the fact that a reptile's body heat is incompatible with sub-zero environments due to being cold-blooded.
Ke Huy Quan, who voices Gary, portrayed Short Round in the Indiana Jones franchise, and snakes are ironically Indiana Jones's biggest fear.
Gary wanting to acquire an ancient book has a similar Indiana Jones-like adventure element.
Keeping with Zootopia's theme of not generalizing animals by stereotypes, Gary is a representation of a snake who is a genuinely nice guy.
Gary's nervous tendencies are also part of a Pit Viper's natural behavior as they tend to avoid any perceived threats.
Gary's relatives all have a name that rhymes with his first name, except for Agnes De'Snake. His past ancestors include Barry, Larry, Sari, Cherry, Teri, Mary, and Carrie.
It is unconfirmed if any of these past members of Gary's family are his current parents and siblings.
It said that the two little snakes of Gary's family are his brother and sister.
Gary is inspired by the Chinese zodiac snake, as the Zootopia 2 is released in 2025 which is the Year of the Snake.
Zootopia 2 is Ke Huy Quan's second animated film he starred in, the first was Kung Fu Panda 4, where he played as Han.
Coincidentally, both Gary (a pit viper) and Han (a Sunda Pangolin) are animals native to Southeast Asia, and are both wanted criminals (though, Gary's case is less fair because of prejudice).
Love Hurts, The Electric State, and Zootopia 2, all are of which Ke Huy Quan starred in, came out in 2025.
He shares the same first name with one of the wolf security guards from the first film.
He is showing the Seven Heavenly Virtues for his heroic act saving the patent who was made by his late great-grandmother:
Humility: Despite being Agnes De'Snake's great-grandson, he is qute humble due to wanting to reveal her as the city's actual founder.
Charity: His primary mission is to liberate every single reptile from their long-time oppression the Lynxleys gave to them for decades.
Kindness: He is generally warmhearted and approachable to others, even if they saw him as a stranger.
Patience: Unless if needlessly provoked, he's got the will to endure his struggles by going through them.
Diligence: He works hard enough to vindicate Agnes' name in order for the reptiles to be welcomed back in Zootopia.
Chastity: He doesn't show any romantic interest for anyone, even if he gets intimate with them.
Temperance: Interestingly, despite being a predator himself, he has impressively been holding his hunger, long enough for him to achieve his intended goal.
Gary and his family’s blue color is a variation of pit vipers, since pit vipers usually come in green. In real life, the species blue pit viper is called Lesser Sunda Isles Pit Viper.
Ke Huy Quan have previously collaborated with Jenny Slate for Everything Everywhere All at Once and The Electric State. Ironically, in Zootopia 2 itself, neither Gary nor Dawn Bellwether have ever interacted with each other during the story.
Gary is inspired by the Chinese zodiac snake, as the film is released in 2025 which is the Year of the Snake.
Ke Huay Quan playing a snake character is very ironic because Quan first began his career in Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom as a companion of Indiana Jones, who has a fear of snakes (formally known as "ophidiophobia").

Gary De'Snake Algorithm
Introduction:
The Gary De’Snake Algorithm (GDSA) is an algorithm I developed in my spare time. I developed this algorithm not only as someone passionate about applying computer science to the real world, but also as someone passionate about social dynamics in film and entertainment as a whole. This algorithm combines my personal interests with my programming skills to develop a model that uses multiple factors to determine gender, survival, hiring decisions, financial or credit risk, health risk, and related areas.
Background:
This algorithm was originally developed with one of my favorite characters, Gary De'Snake, in mind; it is even named after her, as she provides the foundation for this algorithm. Before getting into the algorithm, who is Gary De'Snake? Gary De'Snake is a female pit viper and the tritagonist of Zootopia 2, which premiered on November 26, 2025. She is a 10-meter-long blue-scaled pit viper (Trimeresurus insularis), and in real life, these can be found in eastern Java and the Lesser Sunda Islands. While the pit viper is often seen as poisonous, her role as one of the main heroines of Zootopia 2, alongside Judy Hopps and Nibbles Maplestick, defies those stereotypes.
Ever since the release of Zootopia 2, Gary has been gaining popularity, especially in Asian countries such as China and Vietnam. While many assume that Gary is male, as she is referred to with he/him pronouns throughout the film, mainly by the Lynxley family, as well as in official promotions, there are Easter eggs throughout the film which hint that she is actually, in fact, a girl, something Disney may announce eventually.
Gary uses an autoinjector filled with antivenom in case her venomous fangs accidentally stab someone, known as the Anti-Venom Pen. On top of the autoinjector is a head resembling her own face. The autoinjector is voiced by Auliʻi Cravalho, who voices Moana in the Disney movie franchise of the same name.
Gary comes from a matriarchal family, descended from Agnes De'Snake, her great-grandmother, who is revealed to be the true founder of Zootopia, whose credit was stolen by Ebenezer Lynxley.
The De'Snake and Lynxley have an ongoing family feud. Because Ebenezer Lynxley successfully framed Agnes De'Snake for the murder of his tortoise maid, this led to the reputation of reptiles being destroyed and the families hating each other. Gary was the former "partner" turned arch-nemesis of Pawbert Lynxley, a male Canada lynx who is the great-grandson of Ebenezer Lynxley and the son of Milton Lynxley (the film's main antagonist). Pawbert smuggled Gary into Zootopia, manipulating her to help protect his great-grandfather's "legacy" in attempts to gain his father's love and belonging. Meanwhile, Gary's motive was to prove her great-grandmother was the true founder of Zootopia. While the De'Snake family is a matriarchy, the Lynxley family is a patriarchy, and as such, Gary has feminist symbols.
While Gary was voiced by Ke Huy Quan (Jonathan Ke Quan), a Vietnamese-American male actor whose accolades include an Academy Award, a Golden Globe Award, and a Saturn Award, in addition to a BAFTA nomination, Quan's voice as Gary is more childlike and feminine/neutral compared to his normal voice in other roles.
All of that suggests that Gary De'Snake is a female character rather than male, and these traits provide a solid foundation for this algorithm.
Algorithm Implementation:
As previously discussed, this algorithm is based on the reasoning behind why Gary De'Snake is actually female. The main parameters we discussed include her Anti-Venom Pen (female), her family legacy (matriarchal), her opposing family due to family feud (patriarchal), and the extent to which her voice is feminized/feminine (greater than 5 on a scale from 0 to 10). This algorithm applies these four parameters in a general setting, respectively, where:
a = Gender of object posessed (0 = male, 1 for female)
b = Gender of lineage (0 = male, 1 = female)
c = Gender of opposing lineage (0 = male, 1 = female)
d = Femininity of voice (1–5 = masculine, 6–10 = feminine, inf = unknown)
These four parameters are stored in an array [a, b, c, d] where the array represents the character we want to determine the gender of. If any of these four parameters is not defined, we set it to float('inf') in Python (INF); when unknown, this leaves multiple possibilities. A fifth parameter e can also be added, though e = Name of character and is optional, mostly for output purposes. If e is added, the array would instead be [a, b, c, d, e].
We define the DetermineLineage(character) function to determine a character's lineage. We need this function to merge b and c into a single variable, lineage.
FUNCTION DetermineCharacterLineage(character):
    lineage = character[1]
    opposing_lineage = character[2]
    IF lineage == INF AND opposing_lineage == INF:
        RETURN INF
    ELSE IF lineage == opposing_lineage:
        RETURN INF
    ELSE IF lineage == INF OR opposing_lineage == INF:
        RETURN INF
    ELSE IF lineage == 0 AND opposing_lineage == 1:
        RETURN 0
    ELSE IF lineage == 1 AND opposing_lineage == 0:
        RETURN 1
    ELSE:
        RETURN INF
END FUNCTION
The determine_character_lineage function merges these two variables (b (lineage) and c (opposing lineage)) into a single factor: lineage. If both values are not defined (INF), it returns INF. If b and c are defined, but equal to each other, the result is still INF because the contrast between lineages is required for lineage to be a meaningful factor. If either b or c is not defined, the result is also INF because both must be known to determine dominance. If b and c are opposite (0 vs 1), then the lineage gender is returned based on the value of b. Any unexpected values default to INF. Thus, lineage only becomes deterministic when both lineages are known and opposite.
Now let's define the main function DetermineGender(character):
FUNCTION DetermineGender(character):
    object_gender  = character[0]
    lineage_gender = DetermineCharacterLineage(character)
    voice_gender   = character[3]
    name           = character[4]
    ------------------------------------------------
    -- MALE CASES
    ------------------------------------------------
    IF object_gender == 0 AND lineage_gender == 0 AND 1 ≤ voice_gender ≤ 5:
        PRINT name + " is male by object, lineage, and voice"
    ELSE IF object_gender == 0 AND lineage_gender == 0 AND voice_gender == INF:
        PRINT name + " is male by object and lineage"
    ELSE IF object_gender == 0 AND lineage_gender == INF AND 1 ≤ voice_gender ≤ 5:
        PRINT name + " is male by object and voice"
    ELSE IF object_gender == 0 AND lineage_gender == INF AND voice_gender == INF:
        PRINT name + " is male by object alone"
    ELSE IF object_gender == INF AND lineage_gender == 0 AND 1 ≤ voice_gender ≤ 5:
        PRINT name + " is male by lineage and voice"
    ELSE IF object_gender == INF AND lineage_gender == 0 AND voice_gender == INF:
        PRINT name + " is male by lineage alone"
    ELSE IF object_gender == INF AND lineage_gender == INF AND 1 ≤ voice_gender ≤ 5:
        PRINT name + " is male by voice alone"
    ------------------------------------------------
    -- FEMALE CASES
    ------------------------------------------------
    ELSE IF object_gender == 1 AND lineage_gender == 1 AND 6 ≤ voice_gender ≤ 10:
        PRINT name + " is female by object, lineage, and voice"
    ELSE IF object_gender == 1 AND lineage_gender == 1 AND voice_gender == INF:
        PRINT name + " is female by object and lineage"
    ELSE IF object_gender == 1 AND lineage_gender == INF AND 6 ≤ voice_gender ≤ 10:
        PRINT name + " is female by object and voice"
    ELSE IF object_gender == 1 AND lineage_gender == INF AND voice_gender == INF:
        PRINT name + " is female by object alone"
    ELSE IF object_gender == INF AND lineage_gender == 1 AND 6 ≤ voice_gender ≤ 10:
        PRINT name + " is female by lineage and voice"
    ELSE IF object_gender == INF AND lineage_gender == 1 AND voice_gender == INF:
        PRINT name + " is female by lineage alone"
    ELSE IF object_gender == INF AND lineage_gender == INF AND 6 ≤ voice_gender ≤ 10:
        PRINT name + " is female by voice alone"
    ------------------------------------------------
    -- UNKNOWN / CONFLICTING CASE
    ------------------------------------------------
    ELSE:
        PRINT name + "'s gender cannot be determined"
END FUNCTION
We first define the parameters object_gender (derived from a), lineage_gender (derived from the merged variable obtained for b and c from the DetermineCharacterLineage(character) function), voice_gender (d), and the name (e). These values are stored in a list and extracted individually inside the main function. The lineage value is obtained through a separate function that merges the lineage and opposing lineage into a single deterministic factor.
The algorithm does not prioritize one factor over another. Instead, it evaluates all three factors (object, lineage, and voice) simultaneously and matches them against fifteen explicitly defined cases. These cases represent all consistent male combinations, all consistent female combinations, and one final case for conflicting or fully unknown inputs.
If the object_gender, lineage_gender, and voice_gender are consistent (e.g., all indicate female), the gender is determined with the strongest justification (by object, lineage, and voice). If only one or two deterministic factors are available and they agree, gender is determined based on those available factors. If the factors conflict or are entirely unknown, the gender cannot be determined.
For example, in Gary’s case:
	•	object_gender = 1 (female)
	•	lineage_gender = 1 (female, from matriarchy vs patriarchy)
	•	voice_gender = 6 (feminine range)
Since all three deterministic factors indicate female, the algorithm classifies Gary as female by object, lineage, and voice, which is true based on the evidence given above and her role in Zootopia 2.
Time and Space Complexity:
This algorithm typically has a time complexity of O(1), as it processes a fixed number of predefined factors and applies a predetermined set of conditional decision rules. Since the number of factors and logical branches does not increase with input size, the runtime remains constant regardless of external scale. When applied to a dataset containing n independent instances, the total time complexity becomes O(n) due to repeated constant-time evaluations.
The space complexity is also typically O(1) per evaluation, as the algorithm requires only a fixed amount of memory to store input parameters and intermediate decision variables. No additional data structures that grow with input size are used.
Real-World Applications:
This algorithm is theoretical and requires several parameters to determine gender, so it is not always accurate. In addition, it is more used for symbolic gender. It does not only apply to gender, but to other real-world applications, such as:
Hiring or selection decisions for a job or college
a = Candidate’s portfolio and achievements (0 = weak, 1 = strong, inf = unknown)
b = Academic or mentorship background (0 = not competitive, 1 = competitive, inf = unknown)
c = Academic or mentorship background of competitor (0 = not competitive, 1 = competitive, inf = unknown)
d = Interview performance (1–5 = low, 6–10 = high, inf = unknown)
Survival analysis for a major disaster
a = Lifeboat access or personal gear (0 = no, 1 = has, inf = unknown)
b = Family or social group (0 = men-dominated (low priority), 1 = women/children-dominated (high priority), inf = unknown)
c = Competing passengers for resources (0 = low competition, 1 = high competition, inf = unknown)
d = Health / physical strength  (1–5 = low, 6–10 = high, inf = unknown)
Finance or credit risk
a = Collateral / assets (0 = low, 1 = sufficient, inf = unknown)
b = Credit history (0 = poor, 1 = strong, inf = unknown)
c = Market risk / competing financial obligations (0 = low, 1 = high, inf = unknown)
d = Income / cash flow strength (1–5 = low, 6–10 = high, inf = unknown)
Health risk prediction
a = Lifestyle factors (exercise, diet) (0 = poor, 1 = healthy, inf = unknown)
b = Family history / genetics (0 = high-risk, 1 = low-risk, inf = unknown)
c = Environmental / social stressors (0 = low, 1 = high, inf = unknown)
d = Biomarkers / clinical measurements (1–5 = low risk, 6–10 = high risk, inf = unknown)
All of these applications can help predict outcomes, though they have limitations because only four factors are considered. If a factor is missing, it may lead to an incorrect solution.
Python:
What is also provided is the gdsa.py file, which contains the full implementation of the Gary De’Snake Algorithm. You can run this file to test the algorithm in practice. Follow these steps to get started:
Install Python
Make sure Python 3.x is installed on your system. You can download it from https://www.python.org/downloads/￼.
To check if Python is installed, open your terminal (Command Prompt on Windows, Terminal on Mac/Linux) and run:
python --version
or
python3 --version
You should see a version like Python 3.14.3.
Download the Repository
Clone or download the repository to your local machine:
git clone https://github.com/theirenechen12/Gary-De-Snake-Algorithm.git
cd Gary-De-Snake-Algorithm
Or download as a ZIP and unzip it.
Run the Script
In the terminal, navigate to the folder containing gdsa.py and run:
python gdsa.py
or
python3 gdsa.py
This will execute the test cases included in the script and print the gender determination for each character.
Modify or Add Characters
You can create your own test cases by adding lists in the format:
[object_gender, lineage_gender, opposing_lineage_gender, voice_gender, "Character Name"]
and passing them to determine_gender().

Tweets Made By 이세현 (@sehyunbloomz)
A thread about Gary De'Snake, what is hinted, and what it means
#garydesnake #pawbertlynxley #zootopia2
1. Introduction
Gary De'Snake serves as the tritagonist of Zootopia 2. He is a blue pit viper with a single fang. He lost his left fang when it got lodged in Chief Bogo's head after an accidental bite.
2. The Hints
In Zootopia 2, there are easter eggs suggesting Gary De'Snake could actually be canonically hinted to be a female snake rather than male, as listed on canon sources.
"We got him. Or her. Reptiles, it’s like, who knows?" Nick Wilde after he knocks out Gary with a frying pan.
At first glance, it claims the gender of reptiles is hard to tell, but the "or her" hints at something deeper.
"My only question is: is he gonna be wearinghalf a pants... or one long sock." Nibbles Maplestick in a podcast Judy Hopps was watching. This happened prior to Nick's claims, so Judy knew Gary was probably male and Nick should have known the same but nevertheless got suspicious.
Why did Nick get suspicious? Nick Wilde has a reputation for being able to detect lies and manipulation, due to his prior experiences as a con artist. This was shown due to his initial skepticism of Judy's optimism in the previous film.
Another clue is Gary's anti-venom pen, which he uses in case his venomous fangs accidentally stab someone. Interestingly enough, the pen contains Gary's own head and is voiced by Auliʻi Cravalho, who also voiced Moana. It quotes "Stab me straight into the heart".
This is similar to Judy's carrot pen, which she uses to record her own voice, as well as to gather evidence for recording confessions. The most famous quote of the pen was Judy's own quote "I really am just a dumb bunny". It is shaped like a carrot, which is associated with Judy.
Both pens are used as weapons for both hero(in)es and while Judy's can record other's voices, they mostly record the voices of Judy and Gary, respectively.
The final clue is Gary's ancestry. Previously, Disney had plans to make Gary's ancestor male. However he was cut in Zootopia 2 and changed to Gary's great-grandmother Agnes De'Snake.
Assuming Gary is the same age as Judy, Nick, or even Pawbert Lynxley, this would mean his great-grandmother Agnes would have founded Zootopia in the late 1800s or early 1900s, given Zootopia 2 took place in 2016 or 2017 as Zootopia is assumed to take place in 2016.
Even if it were the early 1900s, women were not allowed to have a position of power and be the founder of a city. The fact that Gary's great-grandmother had a position of power shows Gary's female lineage and feminism.
When Ke Huy Quan voiced Gary, TVTropes pointed out he had a high-pitched voice. This was one reason Nick was suspicious from the start Gary could have been a girl, as Gary's voice was seen as neutral rather than masculine due to the pitch.
Some Zootopia fans on YouTube have made dolls, pastel dolls, or dress up games for the characters. In many of them, they made Gary a girl but Pawbert remained male, despite all his feminization. Some have shipped Pawbert with Gary where while Pawbert stayed male, Gary was a girl.
3. What It Means
In previous threads, it discussed about possible plans that Disney could have made Pawbert a girl. However, this refutes these previous claims, which could have explained why his motives changed from belonging to approval.
Even if Pawbert Lynxley was feminine in terms of backstory, he could have had his motives changed not due to him being feminine but because it contradicted with his backstory. While fans did draw him feminine, it was mostly to emphasize clothing.
The Gary situation contradicts the claims made about Pawbert's feminization behind the scenes, as while Pawbert is one of the most feminized male villains to the point it made sense he is headcanoned as a girl and Gary is more masculine, Gary represented feminism unlike Pawbert.
Especially when Pawbert was the great grandson of Ebenezer, who is male unlike Agnes, and he has no mother aside from a father, Milton Lynxley. However, what remains in stand is how his story is resemblant of Cinderella as the numbers don't lie.
Given Nick's suspicions, his anti venom pen, and his ancestry, and how Jared shocked Pawbert fans with the reveal that Pawbert is in his 30s, there is a possibility Jared can announce Gary De'Snake is in fact actually a girl in a later post or Q and A.
While TVTropes currently states Gary is the feminine boy to Nibbles Maplestick's masculine girl, this would be drastically changed after Jared's announcement, as Gary would now be seen as a tomboy due to his bravery.
Despite Pawbert's femininity, he still is part of a patriarchy in contrasts with Gary's and he did wear masculine clothing, despite claims he still looked girly. This makes Disney unlikely to make Pawbert a female, unlike for Gary's part.
Especially when Gary is a neutral snake with no clothing, and there have been reptiles that did wear clothes, plus with how Gary's voice is neutralized compared to most male characters and the hints Nick, the pen, and his ancestry gave.
This does not change the fact Pawbert Lynxley is an underdeveloped villain Disney made and that Gary had more production, but Disney could have hidden Gary being female as something for fans to detect or be surprised based on the easter eggs they gave.
Still, because Pawbert is underdeveloped, another actor rather than Andy Samberg would have played his role had he had more time for development, but whether he would have become female is debatable given the Gary thing and Pawbert's patriarchal status.
A video from January 9, 2026 featured KPop Demon Hunters characters dressed as Zootopia 2 characters, where Saja Boys member Baby (as Nibbles Maplestick), was turned into a girl (as Gary De'Snake) by HUNTR/X member Zoey and Saja Boys member Mystery.
#kpopdemonhunters #zootopia2
Nibbles Maplestick is a supporting character in Zootopia 2. Voiced by Fortune Feimster, Feimster came out as lesbian since 2005, which led to claims that Nibbles was a butch lesbian.
"Whether Nibbles Maplestick turns out to be the sapphic icon the internet has already crowned her to be, one thing’s clear: Disney still has a long road ahead in giving LGBTQ+ characters the spotlight they deserve." Instinct Magazine on Nibbles Maplestick
Others thought Nibbles Maplestick was male prior to realizing she is a girl, just as many thought Pawbert Lynxley, the film's central twist villain, was a girl.
What does this mean for Gary De'Snake and Nibbles Maplestick given Disney probably won't openly admit Nibbles is lesbian?
For Gary, this just adds to the many hints for Disney's future plans of him, as hinted by Nick, Gary's ancestry, and his pen.
If Disney does make it canon Nibbles Maplestick is a lesbian, aside from announcing Gary is actually female, would Nibbles be officially Gary's new girlfriend? Most have shipped her with Pawbert rather than with Nibbles, yet in the credits she was featured with Nibbles.
Nibbles Maplestick will remain being a female beaver and Pawbert Lynxley a male lynx (despite Nibbles being a masculine girl and Pawbert a feminine boy). They are mammals and have not been mistaken by gender in the Zootopia universe unlike Gary De'Snake.
It makes sense that Baby (as Nibbles) would be turned into a girl as Gary, despite Nibbles being a female beaver, as many viewers do not realize Nibbles is actually a girl or that Gary is supposedly male, though has been hinted through the film Gary may be actually a girl.
This is one of the many videos where Gary is turned into a girl.
More Easter eggs hinting at Gary De'Snake actually being female were revealed in a new official video clip following Zootopia 2's release on Disney Plus, where Zootopian parody film versions of Disney films were shown.
#garydesnake #zootopia2
Two films out of the multiple Zootopian film versions feature Gary De'Snake, BOTH of which make Gary female!!
The first (Enroscados) was a parody of Tangled (Enredados), a film about a Disney Princess named Rapunzel.
The second (Sssssenicienta) parodies Cinderella (La Cenicienta), a film about yet another female character and a Disney Princess!! 
All despite Pawbert Lynxley's supposed similarities to Cinderella given the numbers.
Meanwhile what does Pawbert get?
First one: El Encargato, a parody of El Encargado, an Argentine comedy drama television series, with main protagonist Eliseo who resorts to unethical moves to keep his job as doorman!!
What about the second? 
Purradise, which is homage to Paradise, yet another male centric film and this time a post-apocalyptic political thriller television series, with Xavier Collins, the lead special agent on the president's Secret Service security detail.
Dawn Bellwether's centric film is homage to Cruella, a live action film that serves as a backstory and an alternative origin story for 101 Dalmatians antagonist, Cruella de Vil.
Remember who voiced Gary's anti-venom pen? Thats right, Auliʻi Cravalho! Who voiced Moana!!!
Moana, alongside Cinderella and Rapunzel, are all Disney princesses!! As revealed on the official website!!
So does this mean Gary is meant to be unoficially a Disney Princess, like how Judy Hopps is seen as? I mean its been hinted many times she is a female protagonist, and she has been alluded to multiple Disney princesses plenty already.
These recent hints, alongside the anti-venom pen being clearly HER own voice, Nick's hint "or her", and her female ancestor, all hint that clearly she is a female snake. Given Jared Bush's history, we know he loves to give easter eggs and hints.
A clearer version of some of the photos (while also being in English instead of Spanish) were also posted on the Disney + official Instagram.
#zootopia2
And finally a movie putting Pawbert in a female role we didn't find in that clip... except The Clawdashians is a parody of the Kardashians and other male characters were involved, such as Mayor Lionheart
So there we have it: Gary in female roles such as Cinderella and Rapunzel, Bellwether in female roles like Cruella (because she is a female villain), and Pawbert, despite being the feminized villain in male roles (except for the Kardashian thing, which also has Mayor Lionheart).
Why is that the case? Same evidence we have been proving all along: Gary will eventually be announced to be female at some point. Maybe Jared Bush or Byron Howard can explain it through a Q & A, or feature a scene of her laying eggs in future sequels.
Given that the full names of Judy Hopps and Nick Wilde are Judith Laverne Hopps and Nicholas Piberius Wilde, respectively, it is plausible that the full name of Gary De'Snake could be Geraldine Agnes De'Snake, given the clues of her being female.
#garydesnake #zootopia2
For those who didn't know the clues, here is the earlier thread you can read.
Recap: Nick's observations, her anti venom pen, how Gary was voiced, Gary's history, on top of the recent Disney + promos, all point to Gary being female
Gary is mainly a male name but is sometimes used a nickname for Geraldine, as shown by obituaries of several Geraldines whose names are Gary, with this as an example.
The full name of Hoppers antagonist Mayor Jerry Generazzo is Mayor Gerald Generazzo. Jerry and Gary are pronouned similar phonetically and Geraldine is a female version of the male name Gerald.
If Nick and Judy are nicknames, why can't Gary be a nickname? We've seen all the clues, we've seen how she is rising and promoted as the third most important character especially in promotions.
Not to forget, she cared about her (great)grandmother Agnes, so I think it fits well as a middle name for her full name, similar to why Nick and Judy have middle names not just the full names Nicholas and Judith or their last names Wilde and Hopps.
Full summary of what is going on with Gary De'Snake and Pawbert Lynxley
#garydesnake #pawbertlynxley #zootopia2
Gary De'Snake serves as the tritagonist, while Pawbert Lynxley serves as the secondary antagonist, for Zootopia 2. Both of them have been shipped together frequently, often as "doomed yaoi", though hints of Gary De'Snake may affect that status.
Pawbert Lynxley went through multiple revisions to maintain his awkwardness and match his story more smoothly. As a result, his novel version is different from the movie version, and Andy Samberg was rush casted last minute.
The original plans for Pawbert Lynxley's motives was for him to want to be heir of the Lynxley family. However since he was a twist villain, the team had to create a backstory for him to make it easier for people to understand his arc.
The backstory developed was similar to the backstory of Cinderella. Both share the same number of siblings and parents. It is unknown what happened to Pawbert's mother.
He also worked in the mailroom, similar to how Cinderella worked as a scullery maid. They even have similar personalities, with both being clumsy, awkward, and sharing small gestures of kindness.
Since Pawbert's motives as the feminized underdog and runt of his family did not fit with a power-hungry heir, it was toned down to belonging and approval.
Pawbert Lynxley is shorter than his family, in fact shorter than even his own sister, Kitty, by half a head. Assuming his sister is of average female height, this indicates he would be shorter than even an average female (typically shorter than males).
Cattrick and Kitty Lynxley are twins. It is a common misconception Cattrick is older than Kitty. This was confirmed by Bush himself that they were twins. Cattrick is only the oldest as in being the older of the two males (Cattrick and Pawbert).
At first glance, it seems like Disney had plans to change Pawbert's gender to female but could not due to rushed characterization. However, hints in Zootopia 2 instead signal at the eventual announcement Gary is actually a female, first with lineage.
Nick Wilde, who is usually more wary of people and not as trusting given his history, is shown suspecting Gary was possibly a female snake after he knocks him out. While often dismissed as a "racist" joke against reptiles, Nick's history reveals otherwise.
Gary De'Snake owns an anti-venom pen, which he uses in case his venomous fangs accidentally stab someone. However, the recorded voice of his pen is a female voice (the same actress as Moana), though the snake head on his pen resembles Gary himself.
Unlike Andy Samberg, who sounded like a male when voicing Pawbert despite vocal adjustments, Gary's voice by Ke Huy Quan was far more high-pitched and neutral, to the point fans could interpret him as either gender.
On March 11, 2025, a new official video clip following Zootopia 2's release on Disney Plus, revealed Zootopian parody film versions of Disney films, which alluded Cinderella for Gary De'Snake instead of Pawbert Lynxley, despite Pawbert's backstory.
While Gary was depicted parodying female characters like Cinderella and Rapunzel, Pawbert Lynxley was depicted as male characters from various darker films and shows (such as the action or thriller genre).
Fans have feminized Pawbert Lynxley in fanfictions because of his feminine personality and how he would have arguably fitted better if he were female instead of male. This is more done so than Gary, mainly because  his personality is more neutral.
Prior to Pawbert Lynxley's reveal, many Zootopia fans wanted him to be a girl, calling him "lynx biker girl" or refuting claims he would be male. Gary De'Snake was also called a girl by fans, though not as intensive since he was already revealed.
However, when doing general characterizations of the characters, such as dolls, pastel dolls, or dress up games, they made Gary a girl but Pawbert remained male, despite all his feminization. 
One video featuring the Saja Boys and HUNTR/X members even featured Saja Boys member Baby being turned into a girl, and what did they pick for him to cosplay? Gary De'Snake.
There have been comments claiming Pawbert has been misogynistic. While the backlash may intensify after the reveal that Gary De'Snake is in fact female, they nevertheless refuse to point out the same attitude he had with Nick Wilde, who is male.
Fans were shocked after Jared Bush's announcement Pawbert Lynxley was in his early 30s. This led to questions of how old Gary De'Snake might be, which would be the right time for Bush to also reveal what the Easter eggs have revealed for Gary all along.
Fans of Pawbert Lynxley have been calling for his redemption arc, despite him sharing the same eyes as his great-grandfather, Ebenezer Lynxley. The eyes even had superpowers.
Jared Bush has made it ambiguous as to whether Pawbert Lynxley can get redemption given he doubled down on his villainy after rejecting Judy's offer to be different from his family.
So what do the clues show? 
Pawbert's feminization was more unintentional, albeit rushed. It is uncertain whether Disney planned to make him female, had there been more time for production for Zootopia 2. 
As for Gary, there are already clues that hint at her being female.
More important details regarding the full name possibilities for Gary De'Snake

Date effective: April 26, 2026