About King George (from Press Kit, IMDb, and Heroes Wiki)
Hoppers Press Kit description:
King George, a larger-than-life beaver with a jovial personality to match, is the leader of the pond and king of the mammals. Although he didn't set out to be King, he embraces the role with enthusiasm every day and created some rules to help everyone in the pond get along: Pond Rules! Undeniably optimistic and kind, George is a beaver who loves: leading group aerobics, learning everyone's names, working together in harmony and, of course, wood. A lifelong bachelor, he's married to his job–and while anxiety and imposter syndrome have taken a toll on his hairline, there's nothing else he'd rather be doing. When conflicts arise in his community, George just points to his Pond Rules: “We're all in this together!”
Brief Description:
King George is the deuteragonist of Pixar's 30th animated feature film Hoppers.
He is a beaver in a forest who runs there as the King of the Beavers. He also serves as the representative for mammals in the Animal Council. Upon meeting Mabel Tanaka in person, he thought that she's a real beaver, but upon figuring out that she's really a human, he felt disappointed in her; nevertheless, he supported her no matter what, be it human or animal. He is also Mabel's best friend.
He is voiced Bobby Moynihan, who also voiced Mel in The Secret Life of Pets franchise, Chet Alexander in the Monsters, Inc. franchise, Hal the Dog in Nature Cat, Louie Duck in the 2017 reboot of DuckTales, and Panda Bear in We Bare Bears.
Physical Appearance:
King George is a chubby beaver who is short and stout with thick brown fur, a beige belly, black-dotted eyes (small beady black eyes in a human's perspective), a rounded dark snout, large front teeth, small dark paws, a wide flat tail. Like the other members of the Animal Council, he wears a small gold crown on his head, which he temporarily replaces with a can Ellen chewed into a crown's shape after he loses it.
Personality:
A kind-hearted and altruistic beaver, George's primary concern is simply providing and caring for his people. He seems mostly uninterested in power and only acts as king to foster his community and ensure that they can live harmoniously, displaying a very understanding and gracious side after Mabel accidentally breaks the pond rules. This kindness also extends towards his enemies: he and Mabel are horrified at the prospect of killing Jerry, whom they believed they could peacefully scare into leaving the Glade alone, while he still expresses affability towards Diane even when she tries to kill him.
George does seem somewhat short-sighted and impulsive, as he asks Mabel to become his advisor shortly after meeting her, with his rule over the Superlodge also displaying a sort of delusional optimism as he constantly tries to keep positive despite its flaws. Even then, George does prove to be wise as he's willing to listen to others and correct his behaviour.
Biography:
Long ago, George was the son of the original Mammal King. However, the relationship between George and his father was strained, leading to a significant rift that resulted in George's banishment from the kingdom. His father deemed him unworthy to inherit the throne, leaving George to face the harsh realities of the outside world alone. On his first day of solitude, he felt vulnerable and wished for someone to eat him. Meanwhile, George's father sought to establish a new family, but his brother, aimed to seize the throne for himself, igniting a conflict known as the Twin Wars. George's father was believed to have perished in the war, as the mammals of the kingdom turned to George, urging him to return and claim he's the new Mammal King. George casually agreed to their pleas. Upon his return, he established a sanctuary called the Superlodge, a refuge for animals from various backgrounds who had lost their homes. Although this new community was meant to foster unity, the rules George implemented, known as the Pond Rules, were not without their flaws, and he found himself at odds with the Animal Council.
George is first seen greeting Mabel Tanaka (who is in the body of a fake beaver). When he finds out that Mayor Jerry Generazzo is planning to destroy the glade, he decides to help Mabel. After talking to the Animal Council, the animals decide to squish Jerry, much to George and Mabel's surprise. And then, they decide to squish Mabel after she kills, Titus' mother, Insect Queen. Later, George calls out Mabel for rallying the Animal Council to "squish" Mayor Jerry and the humans but Mabel explains her motives and George decides to help her save Mayor Jerry. During the chase, George and Mabel try to help Jerry escape from the animals. But then, Mabel's professors, Dr. Sam, Nisha, and Conner put her back in her body. Thinking that Mabel is dead, George takes the fake beaver back to his home. At the end of the film, George and the other animals help Mabel and Jerry stop Titus' plan to kill the humans with loud music. And even though Mabel can't communicate in the same way to George anymore, she can still visit him and the other animals at the glade. In addition, George uses Mabel's phone to communicate to her.
Quotes:
King George: Beaver beaver beaver log log log red heart rotating hearts.
King George: Hey, what's your name, beaver?
Mabel: Uh, Mabel.
King George: You want to live here? You better learn pond rules.
Mabel: What are pond rules?
King George: Oh, I am clearing the rest of the day. Let's welcome Mabel, everyone!
[the creatures welcome Mabel]
Mabel: [after the glade is cleared] Now what?
King George: Now... we party.
Mabel: Party? But we have work to do!
King George: We're beavers, Mabel. Work is the party!
Trivia:
Even though George has a father, it's unknown what happened to his mother.
He is implied to be aromantic, as he has confessed to Mabel how he prioritizes his role as the Mammal King over seeking a romantic partner, which apparently led him to turn down multiple love confessions from other animals.
In real life, a beaver colony has a matriarchal leadership (i.e. lead by a female member), meaning that technically speaking, George shouldn't even be a king of his colony.

Date effective: April 26, 2026