About Pawbert Lynxley (from Concept Art, Zootopia Wiki, aboutpawbertlynxley Carrd, and Villains Wiki)
Concept Art description:
Pawbert Lynxley is awkward, affable, and self-effacing. He wants to command respect but just can't, unlike the rest of his family. I reflected those qualities in his design, exaggerating the length and curl of his whiskers, outfitting him in knit sweaters that make him appear softer and fluffier than his siblings, and giving him a motorcycle that only he thinks looks cool.
Brief Description:
Pawbert Lynxley is the secondary antagonist of Disney's 64th full-length animated feature film, Zootopia 2, the second installment of the Zootopia franchise.
He is the youngest son of Milton Lynxley, the younger brother of Cattrick and Kitty Lynxley, and the runt and outcast of the Lynxley family. Wanting to prove that he belongs with the aristocratic family, Pawbert desperately tries to prove his worth to make his father proud and show him that he can be like his siblings.
Initially coming across as a friendly, noble, and helpful individual to Judy Hopps and Gary De'Snake, Pawbert reveals himself later on to not be much different from his father and siblings: a murderous, self-serving and duplicitous schemer who's willing to eliminate anyone and anything that would threaten to reveal his family's dark secret. He's also Judy Hopps and Nick Wilde's third arch-nemesis (after Dawn Bellwether and his father, Milton Lynxley), as well as Judy's former fan, and Gary De'Snake's former partner, later arch-rival.
He was voiced by Andy Samberg, who also voiced Colonel Carper in SpongeBob SquarePants and Benedict Arnold in America: The Motion Picture.
Physical Appearance:
Pawbert is a Canada lynx with light gray fur, a white muzzle, short white claws on his hands and feet, and black markings. He has tufts of black fur on his ears, three wavy whiskers on each side of his muzzle, and his eyes are amber. He wears a dark green sweater with light accents, and brown trousers.
Personality:
Pawbert is introduced as socially clumsy, goofy, easy-going, and eager to please, often making nervous jokes and small gestures of kindness while tagging along with protagonists Judy Hopps and Gary De'Snake. His deference stems from being treated as the family disappointment, highlighting his low self-esteem and yearning for validation.
As the story progresses, the depths of Pawbert's desperation become clear: He betrays and even attempts to kill the heroes, in an effort to gain his father's acceptance and love. It is revealed this betrayal was always intended, and that - as he brought the poison injector with him - Pawbert had considered that he may need to kill as a part of his efforts. However, instead of portraying him as 'sociopathic' or 'psychopathic', Pawbert's actions stem from a history of mistreatment and humiliation by his family, show him as an antagonist driven by personal instability and a desperate need to belong, something he points out to Judy after poisoning her.
Biography:
Pawbert meets Judy at the Gala
Pawbert is a member of the powerful and affluent Lynxley family, descendants of Ebenezer Lynxley, who is hailed as the founder of Zootopia and the inventor of the Weather walls. Forced to work in a mailroom by his condescending and abusive family, Pawbert finds a letter from Gary De'Snake asking them to show him the Lynxley Journal that is set to be displayed at their Zootennial Gala. He arranges for Gary to be smuggled in from overseas with help from Antony Snootley. He makes his first brief appearance at the shipping yard, making the deal with Antony and watching as the anteater is chased down by Judy Hopps and Nick Wilde. When Judy and Nick later go undercover at the gala, Judy bumps into him and makes him spill his drink. They both apologize, and Pawbert awkwardly tries to introduce himself. When Judy introduces herself as well, Pawbert realizes that she is Officer Judy Hopps. His father and siblings, Milton, Cattrick, and Kitty, arrive and shoo him away, and Judy realizes he is a Lynxley before proceeding with her investigation. When Judy and Nick help Gary escape the Lynxleys and the ZPD, who are now also hunting down Judy and Nick, Pawbert takes the snake away on his motorcycle.
Pawbert and Gary team up with Judy
Pawbert and Gary team up with Judy
After another brief appearance in Marsh Market alongside Gary, the two show up again at Honeymoon Lodge. Pawbert saves Judy from Officer Bûcheron by accidentally knocking him out. He tells Judy that he and Gary are on her side, and try to save her when the lodge falls apart, urging her to come with them. Pawbert assures her they can stop his family's evil deeds. Judy reaches for his hand, but she is hit in the arm with a tranquilizer dart and goes unconscious. Gary helps Pawbert reach her as she falls, and they take her away. As they ride through the desert, Judy wakes up, and he informs her that Nick was caught by the ZPD, but no one can catch them out in the desert. Later that night, they reach Pawbert's hideout in a secluded campsite. As they enter his tent, Gary is excited to check out Pawbert's things and plays around with them as Pawbert tries to stop him. He gets distracted as a giant cat toy is activated but quickly shifts the topic back to the Lynxley journal, which he and Gary acquired. He and Gary explain to Judy how they met, and Pawbert promises a downhearted Judy that they will help Nick, as well as the city, by showing everyone the truth about reptiles. As he lights a bonfire, he asks Judy how much she knows. She answers that Gary's family was framed, and there is some kind of secret on the journal's metal cover that only a snake can see. Pawbert explains that as a pit viper, Gary can sense heat. Judy asks why Ebenezer would hide a secret for a snake, and Pawbert replies that he didn't. Gary places the journal by the bonfire and uses his heat-sensing abilities to reveal the journal's secret: Ebenezer Lynxley, Pawbert's great-grandfather, is not the true creator of Zootopia or the inventor of the Weather walls. These honors go to Gary's great-grandmother, Agnes De'Snake. Ebenezer took credit for the invention and tried to destroy Agnes's original patent for it. He also killed his family's tortoise maid and framed Agnes for the murder, and Agnes was arrested after she managed to hide her patent. Ebenezer then used the weather walls to expand Tundratown by burying Reptile Ravine in snow, forcing all the reptiles to flee.
Pawbert drives Judy and Gary through the desert
Pawbert drives Judy and Gary through the desert
Judy deduces that if they can find Agnes's home, they can find her patent to prove the Lynxleys are frauds. Gary draws what he sees and reveals the location of the buried district, and Pawbert wonders how they will find that patent under all that snow. Judy realizes the clock tower that Gary drew is the same one in a photo she saved from Gary's hideout at the Honeymoon Lodge, which they can follow to her home by turning Reptile Ravine's power back on with instructions from the journal. Looking through the journal, she finds the control room is in the Desert-Tundratown weather wall. On their ride there, the three arrive at the Burning Mammal festival and have to make their way through it to reach the weather wall. The ZPD catches up to them, and Judy realizes they were tracking Pawbert through his phone. A chase ensues through the festival, and Milton orders Captain Hoggbottom to kill the three. A hesitant Hoggbottom ends up firing a lethal poison dart at Pawbert and Gary, and Judy jumps in front of them to shield them. Suddenly, Flash Slothmore shows up in his car with Nick and Nibbles Maplestick in tow. The dart gets stuck on the car, and the distraction allows Pawbert, Judy, and Gary to escape and enter the weather wall. They rush to the control room and get free rein of it when Gary's presence frightens off the workers.
"She... she didn't make it
"She... she didn't make it." Pawbert lying to Nick saying that Judy is dead
Pawbert and Gary help Judy pull the switch and see the clock tower light up. Judy suddenly sees Nick on a security camera, still outside and trying to get in, but he quickly manages to. A relieved Judy mentions her last case had a twist, and Pawbert darkly tells her he knows. He then betrays Judy and stabs her in the neck with a venom injector. Gary lunges at him, but he grabs Gary and throws him outside in a pile of snow. He reveals that he needed them to find Agnes's home so he could burn her patent to prove himself to his family and finally belong, considering himself an underdog like Judy. As he takes Gary's fanny pack containing his Anti-Venom Pen and leaves to kill Nick as well, Judy weakly grabs him and begs him to realize he can be different from his family, but he responds that he doesn't want to be different. On his way to find Nick, he encounters Nibbles and stabs her with venom, leaving only Nick still active. He finds Nick on an ice ledge, who asks him where Judy is. Pawbert tells him that Judy died and lunges at him, trying to stab him with the venom injector. As Nick tries to fight him off, Pawbert tells him to "get it over with", as she is already gone. Nick hears Gary, who regained his strength by absorbing Judy's body heat, call out to him that Judy can be saved with the Anti-Venom Pen and to throw it to him. The ledge starts to break, sending Pawbert and Nick sliding off the edge as they fight over the fanny pack. The pen slides out of reach, and Pawbert tries to stop him from going after it, warning him that he will kill them both and it isn't worth dying for. Nick replies, "Agree to disagree", sliding toward the pen and throwing it to Gary, who uses it to cure Judy. The ledge shatters, sending Pawbert and Nick plummeting to the ground, but Nick is saved by Judy and Gary. Nibbles, who is saved with Gary's antivenom as well, notices Pawbert survived the fall and is getting away. Pawbert steals a snowmobile and rides it to the Lynxley Manor, with Judy, Gary, Nick, and Nibbles hot on their trail in a snowmobile of their own.
Gary helps take down Pawbert
Gary helps take down Pawbert
Upon his arrival, Milton angrily grabs him and tells him he will never belong in the family, throwing him to the ground. Pawbert explains that he is helping them, as he knows where Reptile Ravine and the patent are buried and is going to destroy it for him. Milton reconsiders Pawbert being a true Lynxley and tells him to take him to the patent, but the four heroes suddenly show up, and Gary and Nibbles stay behind to try to fight off the Lynxleys while Judy and Nick go after Pawbert. Grabbing matches and a container of gasoline, Pawbert enters a giant maze made of trees and snow. Judy and Nick use a truck to mow down the maze and chase him, then jump off the truck to assail him. Judy kicks him, and Nick trips him, but he springs up and pins them down. He furiously declares he will destroy all of Reptile Ravine and they can't stop him, when Gary appears from behind and tightly wraps his body around him, and Nibbles whittles a log into a baseball bat to knock Pawbert on the head with. As they succeed in subduing him, Pawbert tells them no one will believe them about the journal's secret, and nothing they do matters. Pawbert shows up again when Gary finds Agnes's patent in her home, flinging a lantern their way and maniacally ranting about burning everything down, but he is quickly knocked out when Hoggbottom hits him with a frying pan. Now disgraced and outed as conspirators who covered up Agnes De'Snake's contributions, Pawbert, along with the rest of his family, is arrested by the ZPD. In jail, he glumly looks through the bars while his family argues behind him, and his expression turns to horror when he sees most of the prisoners look at them. At the credits, during Gazelle's performance of "Zoo" at Burning Mammal, he tries to reconcile with Milton, showing him a Partnership for Dummies book before Milton rejects him again and he goes back to reading it by himself.
Analysis:
When Disney released the first official poster for Zootopia 2 on April 10, 2024, multiple characters were teased. One character that was teased was the lynx biker in a green sweater and yellow helmet. As fans came up with theories about who the new characters might be or what the plot would be like, it was often theorized the lynx was going to be a girl rather than a boy, despite possessing a motorcycle, which often is seen as masculine due to the initial perception that only men can ride bikes, and wearing a gender neutral sweater. It was to the point in the Zootopia 2 bingo, which Jared Bush, one of the co-directors of the film, later commented on, one of the entries was "Lynx (?) character is a girl".
On May 20, 2025, a teaser trailer for Zootopia 2 was released, which featured a lynx in a green sweater. It was believed the lynx was not the same person as the lynx biker due to its sinister expressions, though that was later debunked in later teasers. When the movie poster for Zootopia 2 came out on July 30, 2025, it featured a lynx with eyelashes. Because the lynx was unnamed and had lashes, it was still predicted to be a girl. While some believed it was male and referred to it with male pronouns because of the teaser trailer, those claims were refuted by another fan. However, this refutation was later "debunked" regarding the lynx's gender to be female after it was revealed on September 15, 2025 that his name was Pawbert Lynxley and that he would be voiced by Andy Samberg. It is commonly believed that Pawbert Lynxley is a male villain because:
1. His voice actor, Andy Samberg, is male.
2. His name "Pawbert" is a cat pun on the name "Robert", a traditional masculine given name of Germanic origin.
3. The script for Zootopia 2 refers to Pawbert using "he/him" pronouns, so does the description for his concept art and the junior novelization.
At first glance, his role as a parallel to Prince Hans from Frozen strengthens this argument. Both Pawbert and Hans betrayed the heroes. For Pawbert's case it was Gary De'Snake, Judy Hopps, Nibbles Maplestick, and Nick Wilde, though he was mostly a partner to Gary and false ally to him and Judy; for Hans it was Anna and her sister Elsa. Pawbert froze Gary, similar to how Hans froze Anna. Pawbert's fight with Nick can be compared to Hans' fight with Elsa. In addition, according to the junior novelization, his motive was to become heir of the Lynxley family, just as Hans' motivation was to seize power and become a king. Both were neglected by their families: Pawbert was abused and neglected by his father Milton and bullied by his siblings Cattrick and Kitty, and Hans was neglected by his twelve older brothers and father but loved by his mother, and both are the youngest in rich families: Hans is a prince of the Southern Isles while Pawbert is a Lynxley (rich lynx). In the junior novelization, he was ambitious and sadistic about seizing the Lynxley throne, which is similar to Hans' goals to seize the throne. However, despite his similarities with Hans, which supposedly strengthens the claim that he is male, aside from canon pronouns and voice actor, this nevertheless can actually can be refuted.
Unlike Prince Hans, who is charming, Pawbert displays a clumsy, awkward persona, which is more associated with female characters. Pawbert's backstory, in addition to his personality, is also more feminized compared to Hans. Hans is the youngest of his family and has twelve older brothers who emotionally and physically bully and abuse him; one of his brothers Lars treated Hans with considerable difference; wile his father was neglectful and enabled his brothers' abuse towards him, his mother was much more loving towards him though she concealed his discomfort during gatherings; nevertheless this led Hans to despite his family. Pawbert's backstory is at first glance similar: he has siblings and parents who neglect or abuse him. However, Pawbert was treated like a disposable object unlike Hans; he was grabbed and dropped to the ground by Milton after he found out Pawbert potentially was betraying his family; although Pawbert, after this abuse scene, revealed he never betrayed his family and was helping his family destroy the De'Snake legacy to protect the Lynxleys name and after that Milton says he may be a real Lynxley and he should go destroy the patent and he obeys, it still shows how horrible of a father Milton is and how he treats Pawbert like an object, which historically has often been associated with the treatment of youngest daughters in households of rich, abusive families. After Pawbert failed in his plans and his entire family was arrested, Milton continues to ignore him after Pawbert reads him the "Partnerships for Dummies" book. While Hans was never forced into servitude in his childhood, Pawbert was forced to work in the mailroom despite his status as a member of a rich, influential family.
In the junior novelization, Pawbert's goals were ambition to become heir of the Lynxley family, similar to Hans' motives to usurp the throne of Arendelle; like Hans, he was sadistic. However in the movie, his actions were toned down: his motives were changed from heir-seeking to approval-seeking and even after his true colors were shown, he maintains his awkwardness and clumsiness; he wanted to destroy the De'Snake legacy to protect the Lynxley reputation so that he could seek approval and belonging from his father and family, as compensation for the neglect he went through. Pawbert's masculine motivations in the junior novelization clashed with the misogynistic treatment he faced, so his motives needed to be changed, unlike Prince Hans' motivations which did not clash as much with his backstory as Pawbert's original motivations did. Throughout much of recorded history and in many patriarchal storytelling traditions, men have been associated with dominance, inheritance, and control, while women have been culturally associated with relational value, such as being loved, accepted, or belonging to a family or social unit. Pawbert's motives (at least in the movie) aligns with this framework. Rather than seeking power to be the heir of the Lynxley family, his motives were driven by personal instability and a desperate need to belong.
Pawbert is not only adapted from Hans but feminized, but he is a dark archetype of Cinderella, as he was neglected, abused, and forced into servitude by his father just like the latter heroine. Prince Hans also shares similarities though he is less similar as he was never forced into servitude and he was more so neglected and bullied by his older brothers than he was abused by his parents.
Cinderella is a folk tale with thousands of folk tales worldwide. The oldest known oral version of this story is the ancient Greek story of Rhodopis, a Greek slave girl in Egypt whose sandal is stolen by an eagle and dropped into the lap of the Pharaoh, leading him to find and eventually marry her. Ye Xian, a Chinese fairy tale first published in the Tang dynasty compilation Miscellaneous Morsels from Youyang by Duan Chengshi, tells the story of Ye Xian, a mistreated orphan who after her father's death was forced to work as a servant by her wicked stepmother and half-sister, but later eventually marries a king with the help of a magical fish's bones and a lost golden slipper. The Korean story Kongjwi and Patjwi tells the story of Kongjwi and her stepsister Patjwi; Kongjwi's mother died leading for her father to marry a widow and her father passes away shortly after; Kongjwi's stepfamily abuse her by starving, beating, and working her brutally; she overcomes it and tries to escape it through magical animals and a fairy, who help her marry a magistrate; after the marriage she is killed and reincarnated many times and eventually seeks revenge by killing Patjwi turning her flesh into jeotgal (preserved seafood) to feed to her stepmother. The Story of Tấm and Cám, from Vietnam, has similar themes to the story Kongjwi and Patjwi.
All these ancient adaptations are part of the evolution of the most common adaptation of Cinderella (featured in the Disney films adapting Cinderella and loosely based on the classic tales by Charles Perrault and the Brothers Grim). While Charles Perrault's version is not the earliest version of Cinderella, it is an early influential literary version. While the stepsisters were less cruel compared to the previous versions, in later adaptations their cruelty was intensified. The most common story of Cinderella tells the story of a girl who, after her father's death, is abused and forced into servitude by her stepmother and bullied by her stepsiblings, but eventually attends the ball, thanks to a fairy godmother, and falls in love with a prince who identifies her by a lost glass slipper. There are also modern adaptations of the Cinderella story. As this can show, many of these Cinderella stories share a common theme: a girl who loses her parent, raised by her stepfamily, abused by her stepsibling(s), and forced into servitude, yet eventually finds a way out (in many cases its finding and eventually marrying a prince after she loses one shoe). Pawbert Lynxley's story is one of them.
The Lynxley family consists of the patriarch Milton, older twin siblings Cattrick (brother) and Kitty (sister) and youngest son Pawbert. There is no mother in this family; it is often theorized that either Pawbert's mother died after giving birth to him or that she was killed by Milton himself. This is similar to Cinderella's father, who died shortly after he married her stepmother. Cinderella is raised by her stepmother, while Pawbert is raised by his father Milton. Both the stepmother and the father are abusive. In addition, he has the same number of siblings as the most adapted version of Cinderella, which is two; while Cinderella had two stepsisters, Pawbert has two older siblings. Cinderella was forced to be a scullery maid in her household, while Pawbert was forced to work in the mailroom, despite the fact that in rich families, servants were the ones usually in charge of servant work such as sorting mail or housekeeping, not family members. Pawbert is the runt of his family; he is bullied by his siblings and abused and forced into servitude (in his case mailroom worker) by his father; Cinderella is also seen as a threat to her stepfamily and is bullied by her stepsisters and mocked by them while she was abused and forced into servitude by her stepmother. Pawbert eventually overcomes his background by smuggling Gary, a pit viper, into Zootopia as part of a deal with Antony Snootley, an anteater crime boss, then bumping into Judy on purpose during the gala where Gary unexpectedly shows up and eventually becomes partners with Gary, then the two meet Judy helping her though eventually Pawbert betrays both Judy and Gary. This is a villainous twist from the original Cinderella. He meets the "prince"(Gary De'Snake) but instead of marrying and falling in love through a lost glass slipper, uses him as part of an evil plan to destroy the De'Snake legacy given the De'Snake-Lynxley family feud to finally gain his father's approval and love.
In the Zootopia 2 promotional posters, Pawbert had eyelashes. Even though both male and female animals (including humans) have eyelashes in real life, male animated characters are rarely, if ever, depicted with eyelashes. Pawbert is a rare case of what would supposedly be a male character with eyelashes. While some male characters with eyelashes remain masculine, the fact that he has eyelashes, when paired with his backstory and personality, it paints a different picture on his part.
Albeit all his villainy, name and voice actor, he was based on Cinderella but villainized with elements borrowed from Prince Hans, all of his evil plans were done for feminized motives, and he retains his feminine personality even after revealing his true nature, showing he (or rather she) is best interpreted as a villainess (female villain), rather than a standard male villain, in Zootopia 2.
Humanization:
In the film, Pawbert Lynxley is a Canada lynx and the youngest member of the Lynxley family. Given that the Lynxleys are a family of Canada lynxes, which range across Alaska, Canada, and northern areas of the contiguous United States, this would indicate that, in human form, the family would be of Canadian or American descent. The family consists of Milton (the patriarch), Cattrick (heir apparent, oldest brother), Kitty (twin sister to Cattrick), and Pawbert (youngest member). Cattrick and Kitty are twins, as seen in the Zootopia 2 script.
Pawbert is in his early 30s, though younger than Nick Wilde who is 32, as confirmed by the director of Zootopia 2. Despite being a grown adult, he is noticeably short and he has a childlike, feminine demeanor as shown with his awkwardness and clumsiness. As seen in this family photo made by Ami Thompson, who helped develop art for Zootopia 2, Kitty is shorter than Milton, who is shorter than Cattrick, and Pawbert is even shorter than all of them. In the film, Milton appears shorter than the twins, but is still taller than Pawbert, though this could be mostly due to the angle it was shot at. Even if he were shorter than the twins, he is of older age to the point his height could shrink, and even then Pawbert is still shorter than him despite being a grown adult not yet of shrinking age. This would indicate that Kitty, Milton, and Cattrick are of average height, or above average height in Kitty’s case. In most circumstances, the son, especially as an adult, is expected to be taller than his father, if not the same height, and the fact that Pawbert is shorter than not only his father, but also half a head shorter his sister, really says a lot. Assuming the Lynxleys are of average or above Canadian/American height (assumed white), meaning around 175-178 cm (5'9" - 5'10") for males and 163 cm (5'4") for females, and (conservative estimate) Kitty is around 5’4”, this would indicate Pawbert is 158 cm (5’2”) at most in his human form.
From a young age, Pawbert faced both abuse and neglect. Although the Lynxleys are rich, he was forced to work in the mailroom. In other words, he was doing menial work that a servant would do, which is below his social status. Meanwhile, his siblings, Cattrick and Kitty, belittle him during the Gala. In addition, after Milton confronted Nick Wilde after he was wrongfully imprisoned, when Kitty found Pawbert’s fur after tracking his location, Milton angrily then yells, “Find Pawbert”. He eventually called Captain Fern Hoggbottom, ordering her to find (and kill) Judy and Pawbert. Pawbert arrived home after betraying Judy and Gary De’Snake, only to be abused by Milton, telling him will never belong in his own family. Not only was he yelled at, but he was also grabbed forcefully and thrown to the ground as if he were an object. That being said, given how neglected he was, it is plausible he would have never gotten his hair cut in his life or barely gotten it cut, if at all (unlike his siblings and father), and that his hair would be messy. This is more evident given how Pawbert’s whiskers are messy; according to Sang Jun Lee, the Art Director, they are not only messy but also super long. Lee mentions in early concept art for Pawbert about how he “wants to command respect but just can't, unlike the rest of his family” and “reflected those qualities in his design” by “exaggerating the length and curl of his whiskers…”. The exaggerated length of his whiskers reflects how long his hair would be due to neglect of haircuts, and the curl also reflects how messy his hair is, unlike his siblings and father, who have straighter and shorter whiskers (at least relative to height). Given that he may have never cut his hair, his hair would be extremely long; given he is in his early 30s this would mean more than 30 years of uninterrupted growth; in many cases 30 years of uninterrupted growth means the hair often grows to a point it surpasses waist length or even thigh to knee length, longer from the average hair length for females and certainly far average from the average hair length for males, though hair sometimes reaches terminal length at a certain point, so how long it is remains ambiguous.
To sum up, based on canon analysis alone, in his human form, Pawbert would be a young person (158 cm at most) in his early 30s with extremely long, messy hair, most likely past waist length, that was long neglected.
Quotes:
“	Judy: Excuse me. Oh, I'm... so sorry.
Pawbert: Oh! Oh, no. Sorry. Ugh. Here, let me just... Oh, nope. Hahaha! That belongs to you. I apologize. (Chuckles) Oh gosh, he hates me.	„
~ Pawbert's first lines.	
“	Gary's great grandmother. She wanted to make the city a place where all animals felt welcome. So, she invented her weather walls to help everyone. She just needed an investor, a partner. But when my great grandfather saw what her idea could be worth... he plotted to steal her plans for himself. So, he committed a murder. His own maid and frame Gary's great grandmother. And because she was a snake, everyone believed his lie. Soon, no reptiles were welcome. And overtime, my great grandfather buried the reptile neighborhood in snow. And he died, believing no one could ever uncover his crimes. But... he was wrong.	„
~ Pawbert tells Judy and Gary about the story of the titular location is the real founder was a snake and he reveals Ebenezer Lynxley's true nature.	
“	Judy: Sorry, last case there was kind of a twist.
Pawbert: I know.	„
~ Pawbert before betraying Judy and injecting her with snake venom.	
“	Oh! Oh-ho-ho! Oh my gosh! Ha-ha, I really... oh, my heart is pounding! Oh-ho! I thought you knew! I thought you knew! Sorry, partner. Hate to leave ya out in the cold, heh, but... I'm gonna... Please don't be mad at me! But... I mean, you get it. We've always been on the same page. Me and you! Underdogs, right? You gotta prove you're as good as everyone else... that you belong. I know, it's messed up... but... this is my chance. I have to take it, 'cause when I get to his great-grandma's home, and I burn the original patent, I'll finally be something in my family... and I'll finally belong, too.	„
~ Pawbert reveals his true intentions while explaining his betrayal to Judy and Gary.	
“	Ruh roh... No loose ends. Bye, partner. Bye, Judy Hopps.	„
~ Pawbert deciding to kill Nick as he's leaving Judy and Gary to die.	
“	It's okay, Judy sent me. She needs to find Nick.	„
~ Pawbert encountering Nibbles, before injecting her with snake venom.	
“	She... She didn't make it. But with snake bites, you... go fast. You'll see.	„
~ Pawbert telling Nick that Judy's "dead", before attempting to kill him.	
“	She's gone, Nick, just get it over with! You're done! Know when to quit!	„
~ Pawbert trying to kill Nick.
“	Leave it! You're gonna kill us both! It's not worth dying for.	„
~ Pawbert to Nick, echoing the words the latter just said to Judy Hopps.
“	Wait, wait, wait! I wasn’t working with them, I was helping us! I know where the reptile neighborhood is buried, where to find the real patent that proves that the snakes invented the walls. I’m going to destroy it for the family. For you, daddy.	„
~ Pawbert explaining his plan to his father and older siblings.	
“	Nick: She's not a dumb Bunny, and you're forgetting one thing!
Pawbert: What's that?
Nick: We're friends with a Snake!!	„
~ Nick Wilde correcting Pawbert, as he defends Judy Hopps and tells him that they're friends with Gary De Snake.	
“	Pawbert: Daddy!
Gary: Daddy's busy!	„
~ Pawbert after Gary hits him on the head with a bat, carved by Nibbles.	
“	No one will believe you over us. We've always been better than you and we always will be. Nothing you do matters.	„
~ Pawbert, after being defeated by Judy, Nick, Gary and Nibbles.	
“	I'm gonna BURN it all to the GROUND!!! I'm a REAL LYNXLEY!!! (maniacal laughter)	„
~ Pawbert's last words with his final breakdown, before getting knocked out by Captain Hoggbottom with a frying pan and arrested with the rest of his family.
Relationships:
Gary De'Snake
Pawbert first knew about Gary when the latter sent a letter to the Lynxley home asking to see the Lynxley Journal, due to it containing evidence of how his ancestor, Agnes De'Snake made it and by extension, the Weather walls. Pawbert received the letter since he worked in the mailroom. Once Pawbert learned the full story, he saw an opportunity to finally be accepted by his snobbish family by burning Agnes' patent, which is hidden away in Reptile Ravine. He had Gary smuggled overseas and when Gary entered his family home and some chaos ensued after he got exposed, Gary was soon thrown out of the mansion by Judy Hopps and Nick Wilde, forcing Pawbert to extract him via motorcycle and in the process, Judy and Nick are framed for being accomplices of Gary after he accidentally fanged and poisoned Chief Bogo.
Soon, Pawbert finds Judy and Nick in the Honeymoon Lodge where they save Judy from cops after them, though Nick gets arrested. They take Judy to their hideout in a desert and they explain their intention on bringing down the Lynxleys (at least from Gary's side) and they soon find out where to locate Reptile Ravine. After infiltrating a weather wall near Tundratown where Pawbert immediately betrays the two by poisoning Judy and throwing Gary into Tudnratown to incapacitate him (since reptiles cannot survive in cold atmospheres). He then tries to kill Nick and beaver conspiracy theorist Nibbles Maplestick.
When Judy manages to survive (thanks to Gary's Anti-Venom Pen), Pawbert attempts to go and destroy the patent before anyone could stop him, but fails, with Gary giving him one heck of a beatdown, effectively ending their one-sided friendship.
Milton Lynxley
Pawbert and Milton's relationship is quite toxic as Milton sees Pawbert as an embarrassment due to this socially awkward behavior, so much so that he has Pawbert work in the mailroom and do everything he can to keep Pawbert out of the Lynxley affairs. When Pawbert pretends to help Gary locate Agnes De'Snake's original patent just so he could destroy said patent, Milton believed he truly was betraying them. When Pawbert arrives home after failing to kill the good guys, Milton attempts to banish him from the family, but Pawbert hastily explains his plan, causing Milton to back off and finally see him as an asset. However, it ends up all for naught as the heroes manage to catch up and stop the Lynxley's and they all end up in the same jail cell. In the end credits, Pawbert tries to show an angry Milton something in a magazine in their jail cell, but seeing Milton's face, he reads the room and backs off.
Cattrick and Kitty Lynxley
Like Milton, Pawbert's older siblings don't hold him in any regard and see him as an inconvenience at best, first shown during the Gala where they see Pawbert on the stage conversing with Judy Hopps and tell him to get off of it, with Cattrick pushing him away when Pawbert was explaining to Judy that he is part of the Lynxley family. However, when Milton attacks and almost disowns Pawbert for seemingly betraying them, Cattrick and Kitty look shocked, hinting that deep down, they do have some fondness for their little brother.
Ebenezer Lynxley
Despite never meeting his great-grandfather, due to him dying before he was born, Pawbert revered his ancestor in wanting to keep his secret about killing his maid Tortoise Shelldrick and framing Agnes De'Snake, mostly to be accepted by his family.
Judy Hopps
Pawbert met Judy at the Gal where he managed to charm her with his awkwardness. Judy later considers him trustworthy when he reveals that he’s seemingly helping Gary find his ancestor's patent. However, Judy loses all respect for Pawbert when he betrays her and Gary by poisoning Judy and leaving her to die (stealing Gary's anti-venom pen along the way) and turning down Judy when she begs him to reconsider. After surviving the ordeal, Judy then takes down Pawbert with help from her friends.
Nick Wilde
Pawbert and Nick barely have any interaction as the former is more familiar with Judy Hopps. However, once Pawbert confront Nick on the Tundratown weather walls, he lies to Nick that Judy died but Nick soon saw through his lie and Pawbert tries to kill him. Throughout the rest of the film, Nick and Pawbert remained enemies.
Nibbles Maplestick
Despite having minimal interaction, Pawbert saw Nibbles as an enemy, to the point of poisoning her like he did to Judy when Nibbles (alongside Nick) infiltrated the Tundratown Weather Wall to look for Judy. After Gary revived her, Nibbles and Pawbert remained enemies throughout the film.
Trivia:
Pawbert's name is a play on the name "Robert."
Similarly, Pawbert's brother Cattrick's name is a play on the name "Patrick."
Despite being the youngest of the Lynxley family, Pawbert's voice actor, Andy Samberg, is actually older than his siblings' voice actors, Macaulay Culkin and Brenda Song.
Pawbert obtained his motorcycle license shortly before the events of Zootopia 2.inued from mass production long time ago and considered as vintage/classic motorcycle.
During the scene where Pawbert walks towards Reptile Ravine to burn the patent, he enters a large hedge maze in a homage to the horror film, The Shining. Specifically, the scene where Jack Torrance tries to kill his son, Danny, inside a hedge maze in the snow. Pawbert also walks with a limp and does a "Kubrick stare" while in the maze as a homage to Jack Nicholson's Torrance. Coincidentally, both characters wear a green sweater in their respective films. Also, the opening theme for The Shining is heard.
During the fight scene, Gary wraps Pawbert in his coils and hisses in his ear. It is a reference to Sir Hiss constantly hissing in Prince John's ear in Robin Hood.
There were some hints that would suspect Pawbert's true nature:
Pawbert can be seen in a brief, easy-to-miss cameo very early in the film, dressed as a dock worker, when Nick and Judy are chasing Antony Snootley, implying his involvement in the Lynxleys' operations from the start.
During his introduction scene when he is revealed to be apart of the Lynxley family before his siblings bullied him to get off stage, he awkwardly whispers to Judy that he's "trying to be" like his family, hinting at his motivation on wanting to please his family during the climax of the movie.
One scene when Pawbert throws Gary into the snow to escape with him is played for comedy because it seems as if Pawbert merely forgot that Gary couldn’t survive in the cold. But later, he does try to actively kill Gary by leaving him out in the snow.
During the scene where Pawbert, Judy, and Gary are discussing the location of the original patent, Pawbert keeps his hand in his pocket. This subtle action indicated that he was hiding something. Specifically, the venom injector that he would later use on Judy.
In the same scene, the lighting around Pawbert has a more prominent green glow, which is a color scheme that was typically associated with the Disney Villains.
At the Burning Mammal event, when he, alongside Judy and Gary, enter Gazelle's tent, Gazelle herself appears to look at Judy and Gary more than Pawbert himself, symbolizing that he's up to no good. Also, in the point-of-view perspective, Pawbert is on the left of both Gary and Judy; because the left position has been associated with negativity (like in the case of the Cartesian plane), this further enforces Pawbert's suspicious nature.
When the group realizes they are close to finding the location of the patent that would expose his family's fraud, Pawbert's expression briefly turns somber. This hints that he already knew his time as a "companion" to the heroes was coming to an end.
Pawbert serves as a dark foil to Judy, Nick and Gary:
Judy: They're both desperately trying to prove their worth to the other members of whom they affiliate with (Judy in the police force, and Pawbert in the Lynxley family), and their intense insecurities lead them to charge in recklessly without thinking about the finer details, causing widespread chaos as others are caught in the crossfire. However, Judy recognized when she was acting out of bounds and she worked to both make amends and start thinking more clearly about the people around her, whereas Pawbert was apathetic to the collateral damage left by his schemes and devolved into using increasingly deranged tactics in his desperate attempts to achieve success. If Judy kept using more vigilante tactics and remained oblivious to the harm she caused, she would've ended up like Pawbert. Essentially, while they were both initially considered outcasts, Judy ultimately wanted to change the system by purging the inherent injustice and corruption while leaving her integrity and morality intact, while Pawbert willingly cast those aside to maintain the twisted status quo that he's a part of.
Nick: They're both predators who had a hard time fitting in with others due to injustice (Nick fitting in a city filled with prey mammals, and Pawbert fitting in with his family) and hide their flaws with a nest of lies and a behavioral facade that tends to alienate their peers and superiors. Both also greatly valued those they hold dear and are in constant conflict with said loved ones, not explaining themselves until a point of crisis. However, Nick wanted to be more than a criminal and wouldn't pull a stunt despite the ludicrous reward if someone's life would be put in jeopardy, a stark contrast to Pawbert, who had zero hesitation in committing acts of murder to get what he wanted and refused to be anything but a recognized member of his criminal family. Additionally, Nick was able to overcome his overprotectiveness of Judy and ease his insecurities after opening up to her, whereas Pawbert remained consumed by his desire to be accepted by his family and his insecurities only worsened his sanity even after confessing to his father. Pawbert serves as an example of what Nick would've become if he had no personal standards and remained hyper-focused on Judy's well-being over everyone else in Zootopia.
Gary: Both Gary and Pawbert are family-focused men who prove themselves to be very intelligent and cunning despite their goofy nature. However, Gary was raised in a poor but loving family that taught him to care for others despite any shortcomings. Pawbert, meanwhile, was raised in a rich, but abusive family that made him feel self-conscious and insecure, which would cause him to become erratic, selfish, and apathetic to those around him. While Gary actively works to defy the vile reptile stereotype, Pawbert refuses to entertain the notion that he could be an upstanding citizen and works to cement himself as a master criminal. Gary also took the time to genuinely befriend the people he encountered and roped into his goals and also helped them in their own time of need, whereas Pawbert only put up a front to use others as pawns in his plans and actively went out of his way to inflict harm, up to and including murdering them in cold blood. In essence, Pawbert is Gary's ultimate polar opposite, namely someone whose attempts to help others are ultimately solely for his own personal benefit.
Ironically, Gary is the oldest of his siblings, whereas Pawbert is the youngest of his siblings.
If Gary hadn't been there for his family, he would've ended up like Pawbert too.
All four also follow a "risk vs reward" scenario throughout the film, but they have different outcomes. Gary understands his limits and doesn't take excessively risky plans, Nick becomes bolder, and he's more willing to risk himself for Judy's sake, and Judy comes to learn the value of restraining herself and not needlessly putting herself in harm's way. Pawbert, on the other hand, regularly takes incredibly high-stakes gambles more drastic than the last while refusing to bow out even when things get beyond his control, and unlike his enemies his efforts and refusal to accept his limits only lead to his complete downfall.
During the scene where Pawbert walks towards the Reptile Ravine, so that he can burn the patent, he enters a large hedge maze in a homage to the horror film, The Shining. Specifically, the scene where Jack Torrance tries to kill his son, Danny, inside a hedge maze in the snow. Ironically, both characters were wearing a green sweater in their respective films. Pawbert also walks with a limp and does a "Kubrick stare" while in the maze as a homage to Jack Nicholson's Torrance.
Pawbert's mother never got mentioned by him or anyone, but it's theorized that: 1. She died giving birth to Pawbert, which would explain as to why he was mistreated by his family, as he was blamed for her death, or 2. Milton killed her, most likely to silence her because she discovered the truth about the Lynxley's legacy. Either way, it would make Pawbert more tragic.
Interestingly, Pawbert's decision to bring Gary to Zootopia to destroy the patent is what caused Judy and Nick to get involved and expose his family.
In The Junior Novelization, Pawbert is much more villainous and sadistic with his goal being to become the heir rather than getting his family’s love. Concept art on the art even shows this as he is portrayed much more sadistically and even wielded a realistic syringe filled with venom.
The novelization also reveals that the snow blowers Pawbert activates would cause snow to start to rain down on Marsh Market, forcing its residents to either flee or freeze to death.
According to Jared Bush, Pawbert's personality was changed five months before the film's release because his original character was "problematic." Bush said it didn't work because preview audiences questioned Pawbert's character.[4]
In both concept art and book illustrations, Pawbert’s cheek tufts are much longer than how they appear in the final version.
Pawbert was much more sadistic in earlier scripts, being a thrill seeking sociopath who enjoyed tormenting Nick as much as he could, even telling him how he called Judy “Carrots” just to taunt him as he is quite literally circling him like he’s dancing with the intent to kill him, with his primary goal was to become Milton's heir rather than just to earn his love.
Concept art also depicts him with orange fur.
Pawbert is the only Lynxley to share the brown eyes of his great-grandfather.
Pawbert also suffers of Seven Deadly Sins due to him being the spy of the Lynxley Family and betrayed Judy, Nick, Nibbles, and Gary:
Pride: He is very proud being most influenced in the city because he is Ebenezer Lynxley's youngest great-grandson who is being the city's supposed founder.
Greed: He is only thinking and doing his father's evil plans only for richness and money.
Wrath: He is being quite ill-tempered after showing his evil plans and betrayed Nick, Judy, Nibbles, and Gary only for destroying the original patent.
Lust: Being a former ally of Nick, Judy, Nibbles, and Gary (who also used as his fake partner), he is betraying them for only known the Reptile Ravine location and destroy the original patent for increase his father's power and he become the most beloved child.
Gluttony: He hungers to destroy the original patent and helping his father's evil plans.
Envy: He is very jealous after being abused by his father and used as family spy.
Sloth: He is manipulating Gary De'Snake as his fake partner only for finding the original patent and destroying it for helping his father's dirty work and increase power.
Despite being the youngest member of the Lynxley family and being the secondary antagonist, in the end credits, Pawbert is listed before his father Milton, who's the main antagonist and the eldest current member of the family. Given the "Cast" section's zig-zagged order despite its two-bar structure, this means that he's technically listed above his father. Also, Pawbert technically does get more focus than his father, which might explain it.
Pawbert, revealed as a villain, subtly breaks the fourth wall multiple times to hint at his true nature:
The Gala Glance: While talking to Judy, Pawbert quickly and deliberately looks directly at the "camera".
The Emotional Secret: After delivering heartfelt lines in a scene with Gary, he again looks straight at the audience as if sharing a secret.
Post-Betrayal Stare: During the chaos following his betrayal, there is a brief shot where he locks eyes with the viewers.
The Credits Look: In the credits scene, while sitting in a cell with the other Lynxleys, he gives one final look directly into the camera before returning to his book. (However, his look at the end was also somewhat regretful.)

Tumblr post on a theory a Pawbert fan made about Pawbert Lynxley
Explanation of why Pawbert Lynxley can be read as transfem
TW: Spoilers. Please be cautious before reading, as there are spoilers.
Pawbert Lynxley is the youngest member of the Lynxleys, a wealthy Canada lynx family. Outlined below are the reasons, grounded in canon material, narrative structure, and character design, for why and how Pawbert Lynxley's arc closely mirrors transfem narratives, which is why many fans (including myself) read and refer to her using she/her pronouns.
Pawbert is consistently framed as the runt of her family. She is shorter than both her father, Milton, and her two older siblings, Cattrick and Kitty. She was forced to work in a mailroom by her abusive father, Milton, which was far below her status as what a Lynxley heir was supposed to do. Within the family, Pawbert is repeatedly described and treated as too soft, too clumsy, and too awkward, to embody the family legacy. When she intentionally saw Judy Hopps at the Zootennial gala after she bumped into her, leading her to spill her drink, the two girls apologize to each other awkwardly. Judy introduces herself and Pawbert was immediately excited/nervous when she realized Judy was an officer. Then, Pawbert's father Milton and older siblings Cattrick and Kitty show up, dismissing her like she's an embarrassment. All of this highlights how she was neglected by her family. Overall, her family is cold and ruthless, only acknowledging her when she does anything useful. 
Pawbert's relationship with Milton is defined where she is ignored or abused until she can offer something useful to the family. Aside from being forced to work as a maid, she has also been physically abused. The moment Pawbert arrived at the Lynxley's home, Milton, believing that Pawbert was helping Judy and Gary, went by far as physically assaulting her, treating her as if she were an object. He grabbed her by the shirt and flung her to the ground, while violently yelling at her “You don't belong in this family, you will never belong in this family!”. The word "belong" emphasizes how she is seen more as property, something that can be possessed, than family. All of that shows that she faced feminized, misogyny (adjacent) abuse, given how she is treated less like a being and more like property. It was only after Pawbert confessed to him all along she was not working with them, but helping the family, that Milton started to gain some respect for her, but even then his acknowledgement is still hesitant and temporary, henceforth the "maybe" part. He then tells her to destroy the evidence of the patent, and she attempts to obey his commands. In other words, she was only acknowledged whenever she benefits their scheme. After she failed her plan in the end to destroy the evidence and was defeated, the Lynxleys were arrested. In the end credits, she is seen in prison reading to her father the "Partnership for Dummies" book, only to be left ignored, showing how she is discarded again and rendered useless. 
Pawbert is overall a disappointment to her family who does not fit their image, which is why she often tries to be manipulative so she can gain their approval. She was belittled for years of not measuring up to patriarchal expectations of power/legacy, which made her work hard to prove herself, so she had to resort to villainous ways to please her family, even if she with her personality did not actually stand with their values from the start, which was why she was forced to do less superior jobs from the start. This arc strongly aligns with the transfem narrative centered on assimilation pressure: the idea that acceptance can be earned by suppressing one’s softness, ethics, or difference. When Judy offered Pawbert an alternative path, she explicitly rejects it, stating she does not want to be different. This is not framed as strength, but as tragedy.
In some of the promotional material for Zootopia 2, she is depicted with eyelashes, an uncommon choice for male characters in family-oriented animation. Her facial features and eye shape are noticeably softer and more traditionally feminine than even her own sister Kitty's. Combined with her knit sweaters and smaller stature, Pawbert is visually feminized relative to her family. While the design elements alone do not indicate gender identity, when paired with her narrative role as the feminized failure, they meaningfully contribute to why audiences read her as transfem-coded.
Gary de'Snake, while also an outsider, is written very differently from Pawbert. His arc centers on action, moral certainty, and reclaiming the true history of Zootopia. For instance Gary tried to kidnap Milton so he could get his journal back; he also uses heat-sensing pits as clues to prove his family deserved justice, and he never backed down from risk. In the end he reunites with his exiled family. This is a stark contrast to Pawbert's awkwardness, emotional dependencies, and longing for family approval, which is not about justice but about legitimacy.
That being said, it is unlikely that Disney will explicitly confirm Pawbert as trans or explore her gender identity further. While many people ship Pawbert with Gary, it was never fully implied whether she was Gary's girlfriend or not prior to her betrayal towards him. 
#pawbert lynxley #zootopia 2 #zootopia 2 spoilers #headcanon #gary de'snake #pawbert x gary #pawbert lynxley is a girl #pawbert lynxley is a trans girl #trans women are women

Korean Comments (no genderbend, just commentary from movie)
“이몽룡 @monngry 헬멧에 TUNDRA<이러고앉앗다….. 스티커는 어디서구한거고 그걸혼자붙엿을거라고생각하면 진짜 모에력과다임 여고생이냐??”
“이몽룡 @monngry 왜 정장 입은게 더암컷같지 수컷미가 1나도안느껴짐, 암사마귀같음걍
진짜 암컷같아여........”
......... 뒷에서 게리랑 합류한다고 옷 급하게 갈아입는 사이 비밀로 해주겠담서 대형동물이.읍간할거같이생김(?("
“이몽룡 @monngry 아 화나……., 이러고도너가수컷이라고주장할테야?”
“글레부 | 주2스포 @g1evut 와진짜퍼리뇨타어떻게해요?? 막내딸포버트가너무감명깊어서시도해봤는데 아이라인길게빼기밖에답이없음 근데제가여캐라고화장기있게그리는걸싫어해서 그냥포버트됨 뇨타시도는 온데간데없이”
“털난 @didn1tell
포버트 감옥인생은 암컷타락의시작인데 뇨버트 감옥인생은 오뉴블될것같음(이것도일종의, 암컷타락이긴하죠)”
“𝑬𝑽𝒆 @Scor_Sprigatito
근데 탐라에 올라오는 뇨버트썰들 볼때마다.. 포버트는 남자로 태어나서 그나마 다행인것같음..아닌가 애초에 막내딸이었으면 밀턴이 그렇게까지 미워하지 않았을지도..”
“도프 @wowieo1044
주토피아 2 예고편 나왔을 때 이거 보고 포버트 여자인 줄 알았음 막내 라길래 아~ 막내딸? 했는데 남자였음”
“두쫀총 @bearchaff
포버트
대디이슈있는 막내딸이란거 벌써부터 고통스러운데
아들 아니고 딸이라서 집안에서 눈치주는거 덜함 근데 쓸모없는 자식이라고 호통치는게 아니라 ㄹㅇ 자기 하고싶은거 다 하라 하고 아무신경도 안쓰는 방치형 학대라서 포버트 애정결핍걸림
가상캐스팅성우 : 레이첼블룸" "
두쫀총
게리
뇨타전이랑 뇨타후랑 아무차이가 없어서 포유류들은 성별 구분못함
근데 할머니처럼 크리스마스에 가족들한테 선물받은 뜨개레이스원피스 딱 한 번 입었더니 성별구분가능해져서 주디가 “정말 미안해 네가 암컷이라는걸 알았어야했는데 파충류에 대한 내 편견때문에”로 시작하는 청승 시작함"

Nyota Feminization and Genderbending
Many male characters have been feminized through genderbending (뇨타) via headcanons or drawings, its not just Pawbert Lynxley (포버트 링슬리). For Pawbert however, given his qualities which contrast with most male characters, he is the most feminised character so he gets more frequent 뇨타 feminisations, many of which are in Japan or Korea. There is one Korean (벅 @buckram111) has posted a feminised drawing of another Lynxley family member with the caption “캐트릭 뇨타”. However, most of these “뇨타” drawings or headcannons apply with  Pawbert where none of his other family members (Milton, Kitty, and Cattrick, and ex Gary) are feminised (or masculinised for Kitty’s case); for example in some they even put Milton (male) with Pawbert (female). This shows the Korean beliefs that Pawbert would be better off written as a female character not just the art of genderbending a character as a whole. In the feminisation process she is often nicknamed as “뇨버트” short for “뇨타 포버트”. Comments even show the preference of female Pawbert: 봉식 @ttong39853 “이제 그냥 포버트는 뇨버트로 밖에 안 보여서 포버트그리려면 단타를 해야할 것 같음” and “뇨마 @nyoma6666 뇨버트 옆에 포버트 두면 갑자기 포버트가 안정형됨성가신여자아이정병멘헤라뇨버트”.

Anonymous comments on his character as a whole after they watched Zootopia as recommended by a recent Pawbert fan
"I love pawbert she is definitely she her" "i do remember that scene im so sorry pawbert ever had to deal with the lynxleys" "i think pawbert was actually gonna help until the lynxley family was basically backed into a corner (like they were putting pressure on the family bc they were trying to expand AGAIN) and honestly idk abt her dad" ""we included characters we see as fem, especially pawbert!" we can also talk about how before zootopia 2 i saw a tweet  that was just a pic of pawbie and MOST people wanted her to be a girl and thTs what we adhere to!" "likewise but i cant help but also understand how she got to that point bc of treatment " "i definitely think milton is the worse (if you abuse one kid you're willing to abuse them all) but i know several families that have an outcast like pawbie and it usually creates a rift between the siblings" "honestly it kinda reminds me of cinderella's treatment by her family too except pawbie did one last thing to try to impress her family which was her downfall while ella knew her worth" "i thought it was a secret hiding spot but it may be her house like "heres where i hide from my family"" "i honestly avoided any spoilers before we watched!! and i wish disney would have given her more screentime imo" "i was also sad she didnt finda frind in jail 😔 i was hoping the vp sheep" "yeah i was hoping to see the prisoners mingle ig but it is a kids movie😭" "before she introduced herself i had already noted how adorable she was and how sweet she was to judy and garyb" "i honestly was mosy surprised she ended up a villain" "shes such a diva i wish she got a redemption arc 🥺" "i love pawbert she is adorable and definitely is she/her" "and i dont ship her and gary besides as friends!" "i watched it and i lOVE PAWBERT AND GARY TOO" "my fiance feels bad for her too" "i think it was just an excuse for her family- we saw them poke at her even w yhe first convo w judy"

Tweets Made By 이세현 (@sehyunbloomz)
A summary of Pawbert Lynxley, the production process, and what it could have been
#pawbertlynxley #zootopia2 
1. Introduction
The Lynxley family is ruled by patriarch Milton Lynxley, the grandson of Ebenezer Lynxley, who claimed to. be the founder of Zootopia.
They are determined to preserve the family legacy by preventing the truth of Ebenezer's crimes from being exposed. 
Milton Lynxley, the patriarch of said family, has fathered three children: older twins Cattrick and Kitty, and youngest child Pawbert.
Cattrick is ambitious, Kitty is sharp-tongued, and Pawbert is seen as the runt of the family. 
Pawbert is first introduced as socially awkward, eager to please, and easygoing. 
He makes a deal with Antony Snootley to smuggle Gary De'Snake into Zootopia. It is revealed he smuggled him in response to finding a letter from him in the mailroom. 
He sneakily puts Gary into his motorcycle after Gary escaped the ZPD and the Lynxleys by falling off the windows of Lynxley Manor.
It is hinted he has been following Judy Hopps and Nick Wilde, as he and Gary were seen at Marsh Market. 
The two show up again at Honeymoon Lodge, where Pawbert reveals he can stop his evil family's deeds. He saves Judy, then the three head through the desert to Pawbert's tent.
Outside at the bonfire they discuss relevant details, such as the location of Agnes De'Snake's patent. 
The trio head to Desert-Tundratown weather wall, passing through the Burning Mammal festival. 
After they gain access to the weather walls, Pawbert betrays and attempts to poison Judy with snake venom and throws Gary into the snow. 
He then attempts to find Nick Wilde. On the way he poisons Nibbles Maplestick, who also helped Judy and Nick.
When he sees Nick, he claimed to him that Judy was dead. They get into a fight. The antivenom pen he stole was thrown to Gary, leading Judy and Nibbles to be saved. 
Pawbert arrives home, only to be physically and verbally abused by Milton, until he convinces him that he was not helping Judy, Gary, or Nick, but actually helping the family. Milton reconsiders his stances as a true Lynxley and asks him to destroy the patent. 
Pawbert enters a giant maze of trees in attempts to destroy the patent. Judy, Nick, Gary, and Nibbles succeed in fighting against him.
When Gary finds the patent, Pawbert enters again, attempting to burn the house claiming he is a real Lynxley, only to be knocked down. 
He is finally shown in prison, glumly looking through the bars while his family argues behind him. He later is seen in the credits reading the Partnership for Dummies book to Milton, only to be turned down. 
2. Teasers
The lynx was first hinted in the first official poster for Zootopia 2 on April 10, 2024. He is shown wearing a green sweater and yellow helmet.
The same lynx was then revealed on the teaser trailer on May 20, 2025 and the movie poster on July 30, 2025. 
On October 14, 2025, the Junior Novelization for Zootopia 2 was released. It gave spoilers on what Pawbert Lynxley might have been as a character.
The movie was released on November 26, 2025 in the United States. Pawbert's novel version has differences to his current version. 
This brings to production, and how and why his novel version is different from his current version, as well as why he was announced late unlike new characters like Gary De'Snake who were announced earlier.
In the Junior Novelization, his motives were not belonging and approval, but to become the Lynxley family heir.
He was also more sadistic, as revealed by concept art where he wielded a realistic syringe filled with venom; his interactions with Nick were far more tormenting. 
The producers wanted to create a twist villain for Zootopia 2 like they did for Zootopia with Dawn Bellwether.
Initially he was going to be an ambitious lynx who aimed to be the successor of a patriarchal lynx family that aims to destroy reptiles. 
However, the producers needed to come up with a backstory to explain his villainy.
Pawbert's story is remiscent of Cinderella, albeit dark. He was neglected and abused by his father Milton (Cinderella's stepmother), and bullied by his two siblings (Cinderella's two stepsisters). 
In addition, Pawbert was forced to work in the mailroom, which is very similar to how Cinderella was forced to work as a scullery maid.  
Pawbert even maintains the same awkwardness, clumsiness, and small gestures of kindness, and keeps some of these qualities even as a villain. 
Given the family member statistics alone, he is an archetype of Cinderella.  
On top of that both were forced to work as servants despite their rich statuses.  Even the personalities are similar.
Cinderella was definitely an important factor when developing his backstory.
Because his backstory is based off Cinderella, albeit darkened, it clashed with his motives, and as such they had to be shifted, as it did not make sense for a supposed Cinderella archetype (the neglected rich forced to work in servitude) to want to be heir.
In the Junior Novelization, his motives still remained as it is, though it does have the Cinderella backstory he has in the movie.
Again, his Cinderella backstory was made in the beginning, after the initial thought on what his motives might be.
Because of this, Pawbert's sadism was toned down between the novel and movie version.
While Pawbert activated snow blowers when entering the maze in both versions, it was toned down in the movie version.
The novelization reveals that these blowers would cause snow to start to rain down on Marsh Market, forcing its residents to either flee or freeze to death.
In the novel he was responsible for the expansion of Tundradown.
Pawbert Lynxley's character was rewritten multiple times.
Initially, his motives was to be the Lynxley patriarchy heir. But he needed a backstory. The one generated was based off Cinderella, which clashed with his motives. 
These motives were changed to belonging/approval.
4. What It Could Have Been
Zootopia was released on March 4, 2016, while Zootopia 2 was released on November 26, 2025, nearly 10 years after. It was highly anticipated, and Bush did not want to delay production, leading to Pawbert's rushed characterization.
Pawbert's motives was supposed to be heir, but a character archetype that was rarely, if ever, used for males, was used for his backstory, which changed his motives. 
This brings the question as to if Pawbert would have been even been male had more time been put into production. 
Pawbert is a cat pun on the name Robert, whom he shares with Robert Callaghan, the villain of Big Hero 6.
He was hinted to be the hooded figure like Callaghan was as Yokai.
As much as his name is amazing, was the name itself also rushed?
What would have been his name? 
Given he (she) would have been changed to a female villain and the possibility his (her) name would not have been Pawbert, what about for Andy Samberg?
He would be recast to another Disney role in Zootopia 2 or been cast to other films. 
Who could have voiced him (or should I say her)? 
One possibility is Greta Lee, who is set to voice Lilypad in the upcoming Pixar film Toy Story 5.
Toy Story 5 is Lee's first ever Disney animated film. Previously she starred in Tron: Ares (2025) and the Spider-Verse Trilogy. 
Why Lee? Toy Story 5 and Zootopia 2 are both sequels of highly anticipated franchises.
It is possible Lee always wanted to be in big animated films, which was why she starred in Toy Story 5.
If Andy Samberg could not voice Pawbert anymore, a role could have been open for Lee.
If Lee voiced her, it would have been significant. He already has a large fanbase, and her fanbase would have been larger if she was fully developed, though some would have preferred him staying male.
It could have easily been any voice actress though, as this is speculation.
In terms of outfits, Pawbert could have worn a suit but it would be more feminized. She could have worn a dress too at the gala instead.
As for sweaters it may have been changed to something else, such as dresses.
Despite how she could have ended differently in the end had more time been put into production and the criticism he gets because of these issues, he is still very loved as the character he already is and is still gaining a large fanbase.
Pawbert Lynxley is one of the most feminized male Disney villains.
He faced multiple changes and revisions, to the point his gender could have been changed had Zootopia 2 been released later, which would have affected Andy Samberg's role.
#pawbertlynxley #zootopia2
Pawbert Lynxley's original motives was to become heir of the Lynxley family.
However, his backstory drastically changed his motives. Why is that so?
According to Jared Bush, a co-director of Zootopia 2, he wanted him to maintain his awkwardness even during villainy.
However, this does not explain why his motives changed from being the heir to belonging and approval.
So why actually did his motives change to belong and approval?
His backstory is from an archetype that is rarely, if ever, used for male characters, especially given he serves as the scullery maid of his family (mailroom) and the abuse he had to endure.
Pawbert has been physically and verbally abused by his father Milton.
When Pawbert arrived home after this for example, Milton tells him he does not belong to the family. Not only does he yell at him, he flings him dropping him to the ground.
Even if Milton reconsiders after Pawbert talks back, it does not erase what happened earlier.
The abuse contains misogynistic undertones, especially when he is treated like an object/ragdoll that can be thrown away.
Pawbert's personality is feminized.
The combination of the awkward charm, small gestures of kindness, and clumsiness at the same time often, if not, are given to female characters.
Originally, his motives were to become successor for the Lynxley patriarchy (power).
They were changed to: belonging/approval from his family (love). His backstory did not align with previous motives.
Motives out of love is more emotional and often given to female characters.
San Jung Lee reveals Pawbert's powerlessness and vulnerability in early concept art for Pawbert Lynxley:
''Pawbert Lynxley... wants to command respect but just can't, unlike the rest of his family..."
At the time his motives have not been changed yet, but it nevertheless explains his backstory and his feminized role.
He could not "command respect" in a similar way women in patriarchies were often mistreated and seen as inferior/less dominant.
Because his motives are so feminized, many Korean netizens on Twitter and other platforms have questioned his validity as a male character.
In some Korean fanart, he is drawn under the nickname "뇨버트" (Nyobert), where he is often shipped with his siblings Cattrick and Kitty or his abusive father Milton and drawn in feminine clothing such as gowns instead of his tuxedo he wore at the gala.
"뇨버트" is a shortened nickname for "뇨타  포버트". Nyota (뇨타) is the Korean abbreviation for Nyotaika (뇨타이카), derived from the Japanese term nyotaika (女体化).
According to the Naver Wiki, it is often used for males who have "moe" energy.
There is a reason Pawbert Lynxley is known for his "moe" energy, which is the main reason for his feminization.
He is a neglected, abused character motivated by feminized emotional motives.
In this tweet, he was even compared to a "high school girl".
Even from before he was revealed to be actually male and his name was not announced, due to the rise of women in motorcycles and the lashes he was given in promos, many netizens have wanted or thought he was a girl.
In the initial Zootopia 2 bingo, which Jared Bush commented on, it even mentioned the Lynx character (later revealed to be Pawbert) was going to be female.
While it was later "debunked", fans still believe he is female to this day.
Kitty and Cattrick Lynxley are twins. It is commonly misconcepted that Kitty is the middle daughter and Cattrick is the eldest son because according to The Wrap, it claims Cattrick is the "eldest" son, but it is vague on Kitty's part.
Any wiki claiming Kitty is the "middle daughter" needs to be changed. Jared Bush himself has explicitly confirmed Cattrick and Kitty are twins. Twins are the same age as each other. While either could be the "older twin", in most cases they are at most a few minutes apart.
There however are twins born 87 days apart, but it is rare.
Maria Jones-Elliot went into labour three months early with Amy, who weighed just 1lb 3oz; her sister Katie did not arrive for another 87 days.
But even then it is a rare case. Most twins are barely ages apart. We do not even know out of which who is older out of Kitty and Cattrick. It is only implied out of Cattrick and Pawbert, Cattrick is the eldest of the two.
Explaining the reasons Pawbert Lynxley is getting more fans compared to female characters and the reality
#pawbertlynxley #zootopia2
Pawbert Lynxley's fandom has been criticized multiple times for seeing him as "misunderstood" or pleading for him to be freed from jail. They also have received criticism because they were rooting for his redemption.
Pawbert Lynxley is canonically a male character. Fans have claimed male characters were getting more appreciated than females, citing Jett Fillmore, a character in GOAT, or even Nibbles Maplestick or Dawn Bellwether, who both have a much more niche fanbase, as examples.
There have also been comments claiming Pawbert has been misogynistic towards women after his stabbing of Judy Hopps at the neck and Nibbles Maplestick at the heart, refusing to point out how he has done the exact same towards males like Nick Wilde or Gary De'Snake.
There are definitely fans who support Pawbert Lynxley because they hate women so they refuse to support any female characters, that is definitely a thing.
Throughout history, women were always seen as inferior compared to men. Pawbert, who is canonically male, has an advantage.
However, Pawbert Lynxley is in reality a feminized character who has been revised many times.
Originally he was supposed to be ambitious heir to the Lynxley patriarchy.
His backstory, based on a female archetype, softened his motives and villainy.
Until about 5-7 months ago, Pawbert Lynxley was still in development. Andy Samberg was cast because of  his initial persona, though had production taken more time, he may not have been Pawbert at all given Pawbert's gender may have been changed.
If only people saw how his development was rushed or the feminization he went through, would his fans be called misogynist or would they accept that in actuality it is a female character in essence aside from the pronouns, name, and actor meaning supporting her isn't misogynist?
Let's connect the dots.
Pawbert's motives were feminized, not just his (her) backstory.
If there was more room for development, (s)he would have easily been a female character, fully recasted.
This would affect the fanbase she would have had compared to her current fanbase.
If people saw what was behind the scenes, less Pawbert fans would be seen as misogynist, because she is more like a female villain than a male villain.
Plus she hurt women AND men. She attempted to kill 2 men and 2 women. She does not care about the gender of her victims.
The main reason Pawbert Lynxley is getting more fans compared to female characters like most fans say he does is:
He is sympathetic. He has went through a life cycle of abuse. His actions are not excusable: he is indirectly supporting a genocidal patriarchy.
However even though he is contributing to colonialism and genocide, he did it for the approval of his father, not because of his racism towards reptiles. He is also not a misogynist. The statement about his supposed maleness or hatred towards women have both been debunked.
If Pawbert misogynist fans really did exist and only liked him for being male, would they have supported him if they saw the truth that is coming out about his feminized role or would they have supported someone else like Milton Lynxley who abused women like Pawbert?
Clearly they would not support Pawbert Lynxley, if they only supported him (her) because (s)he was male. 
Had they seen the signs of her increased feminization as a character as multiple rewites were made and what it could have been if more time for production was made.
Misogyny is a thing.
We have seen it with the recent case between 143 Entertainment and MADEIN.
#madein #143entertainment
MADEIN is a 7 member group under 143 Entertainment. Back in November of 2024, Lee Yong Hak was accused of sexually harassing member Gaeun, who was removed from the group. This led to the eventual removal of members Yeseo and Suhye.
As revealed in the press conference, the CEO had to apologize for his assault against Gaeun. If he was innocent and Gaeun truly lied about abuse, why would he write an apology letter? He literally confessed to his crimes.
143 Entertainment also has a habit of deleting statements and erasing Gaeun's content from social media. They were caught lying multiple times about Lee Yong Hak's removal and deleting statements in attempts to save face and silence Gaeun.
MADEIN's fans, especially in Japan, need to realize that supporting MADEIN as it is now means supporting the erasure of women like Gaeun, who did not deserve to be abused. If Gaeun was truly guilty, what would have happened to Suhye and Yeseo instead?
Addressing the Pawbert Lynxley and Gary De'Snake ship and its validity
#pawbertlynxley #garydesnake #zootopia2
1. Introduction
Pawbert Lynxley is the secondary antagonist of Zootopia 2. Pawbert has been rewritten multiple times, and the latest of his character modification was just 5-7 months before release, showing his rushed characterization.
Gary De'Snake is the tritagonist of Zootopia 2. He learns that the Lynxley journal is set to be displayed at the Zootennial Gala. He sends a letter asking if the journal can be sent to him. Pawbert receives the letter and arranges for his smuggling.
At the Gala, he steals the journal, abducting Milton Lynxley. Judy and Nick, who are undercover, investigate him. He reveals to them during the attacks that the Lynxleys are in the wrong. Judy and Nick realize who Gary is and protect him against the Lynxleys.
Gary is separated from Judy and Nick after they jump off the window, where he is taken by a motorcycle driver (Pawbert Lynxley in a helmet). He is seen with the driver at Marsh Market, where he takes the journal away from Judy even though she was helping him.
He and Pawbert, as partners, team up and save Judy at Honeymoon Lodge. They then head to Pawbert's hideout. This is where Pawbert and Gary reveal about their partnership.
Judy Hopps: "How did you become partners?"
Gary De'Snake: "When I found out the journal was gonna be on display at the gala, I sent his family an anonymous letter asking to see it. Luckily, they make Pawbert work in the mail room, so he read it first."
At the bonfire which Pawbert lights out, Gary uses his heat-sensing ability to uncover the secret of the Lynxley Journal. This reveals the history of his great grandmother, Agnes De'Snake, and how she was framed for the murder of the tortoise maid, whom Ebenezer Lynxley killed.
They later arrive at the Climate Control Walls, which is where Pawbert, Judy, and Gary enter the Weather Walls. This is where the betrayal happens. Pawbert attempts to betray Judy and Gary. He grabs Gary and throws him outside in a pile of snow.
"Sorry, partner. Hate to leave you out in the cold, but... I'm gonna... please don't be mad at me.... 'Cause what...I burn the original patent, I'll finally be something in my family, and I'll finally belong, too." Pawbert Lynxley when betraying Gary De'Snake
Pawbert is seen with Gary again when after Pawbert's fight with Nick, he steals the anti-venom pen Pawbert took from him, which saved Judy Hopps (as well as Nibbles Maplestick) from dying.
At the snow after Nick and Judy go after Pawbert at Lynxley manor, Gary attacks Pawbert.
"Howdy, partner!"
Gary to Pawbert after his arm is grabbed by Gary, who wraps around his body.
Pawbert attempts to commit arson after Judy, Nick, Gary, and Nibbles go to the clock tower, which contains Agnes' patent, which Pawbert failed, as revealed here.
2. The Ship
Pawbert Lynxley and Gary De'Snake, who were formerly partners until Pawbert Lynxley revealed his true colors, are often shipped as "doomed yaoi".
Doomed Yaoi refers to a boy x boy ship destined for tragic endings due to internal or external conflicts.
This is because prior to Pawbert's downfall, they were close together as "partners" something both have said about or regarding each other. This is similar to the Judy Hopps X Nick Wilde ship.
Judy and Nick are shipped due to their chemistry and how they were partners in both films, something they refer to each other as, just like Pawbert and Gary have done. In addition, Judy and Nick were joked to be Finnick's parents at the beginning of the film.
Both Pawbert and Gary and Judy and Nick were paired together frequently in official art and merchandise for the franchise.
For example, official concept art for Zootopia 2 features Gary and Pawbert together in the motorcycle.
Official merchandise has also sold the Pawbert and Gary motorcycle pair as a playset. 
The left playset is an official Disney playset, while the other is a blind box playset from China.
Director Sang Jun Lee posted on Instagram featuring Pawbert in his motorcycle with Gary and liked a comment which asserted the two were "doomed yaoi".
3. Criticism
Some fans have criticized people for shipping Pawbert Lynxley with Gary De'Snake, claiming that people who ship them are shipping a victim (Gary) with the villain (Pawbert). One of the critics points out that Pawbert ruined Gary's chances of freedom from oppression.
If people are so against shipping Pawbert and Gary, why have they not said anything about Zoeystery? The ship involves Zoey, a demon hunter (member of HUNTR/X) fighting against oppression (demons like Mystery, part of demon boy band Saja Boys)?
Additionally, even outside of the Zoeystery hypocrisy, why has Disney sold merch that paired Pawbert and Gary? Why have antis of this ship not said anything or called a boycott against Disney for selling merch that paired the "colonizer enabler" with the "oppressed"?
4. What does this mean?
Disney clearly intended Pawbert and Gary to be as much of a couple as Nick and Judy, through the merchandise and concept arts and liking of comments from supporters of the ship, much to antis of said ship and Pawbert's crimes against Gary.
Disney has a lack of LGBTQ+ representation. Yet Pawbert Lynxley, a supposedly male character, is shipped with a male character, Gary, and Gary and Pawbert call each other Pawbert, even after both became enemies, and both are as intimate as the heterosexual Nick/Judy ship.
Why is that the case? Pawbert Lynxley has been feminized multiple times, to the point staff have perceived him as a female character, especially after his backstory was created, his motives had to be changed. Clearly she is a female character.
There have been posts claiming Pawbert Lynxley is Juliet Capulet and Gary De'Snake is Romeo Montague to support these claims.
Romeo and Juliet is a story by William Shakespeare about the said star-crossed couple.
The song "Oceania" by Icelandic singer and songwriter Björk was released on 13 August 2004. One of the lyrics of the song is 
"Every boy is a snake, is a lily  
Every pearl is a lynx, is a girl"
The lyrics mention the boy, who is a snake, which is Gary De'Snake, given he is a pit viper, while the girl is reconnected to the lynx, which is Pawbert Lynxley, the Canada lynx.
Was this song taken into consideration during Zootopia 2's production?
To some extent yes, though the lynx and the snake were created prior to even generating a backstory for Pawbert, so the girl and boy part was not emphasized as much, they just used it to create the tension between lynxes and snakes, as we see with the Lynxley and De'Snake feud.
Pawbert Lynxley has been feminized multiple times to her final version, but her friendship with Gary De'Snake was always going to happen, even before her backstory was even made. It is possible Disney always wanted them to be a couple but forgot to take gender into consideration.
People can have disagreements, but they should not be calling out fans who support the pairing, especially if these same people ship Nick/Judy or Zoeystery from Kpop Demon Hunters.
Especially when it is implied even Disney supports it, they could've brought this issue with them.
Addressing Pawbert Lynxley's eye color and what this means for the future of Pawbert Lynxley and the Lynxley family
#pawbertlynxley #lynxleyfamily #zootopia2
1. Introduction
Pawbert Lynxley is the youngest member of the Lynxley family. Despite being the runt of the Lynxley family, Pawbert is the only member with amber eyes, as Milton has blue eyes, Cattrick has blue eyes, and Kitty has green eyes.
While Pawbert's eye colors are different from the other Lynxley family members, they are the same eye colors as Ebenezer Lynxley.
Ebenezer Lynxley claimed he was the founder of Zootopia and took credit for the creation of the weather walls. However, it is revealed he faked them.
As revealed in the Lynxley journal, he did not create the weather walls and in fact he was not the founder of Zootopia. In fact, the real founder of Zootopia was Agnes De'Snake, whom he framed for the murder of his tortoise maid, Tortoise Shelldrick.
It was revealed he killed the maid in actuality with poison venom, as the maid saved Agnes’ patent and Ebenezer had a deep resentment against reptiles.
As a result of the crime, the reputation against reptiles was damaged, leading them to be forced out of the ravine.
Even though it is shown the Lynxley family have made attempts to kill Judy Hopps, Nick Wilde, and Gary De'Snake and them, especially Milton, have prejudice against reptiles like Gary De'Snake, we really only see the active attempted murders done actively by Pawbert Lynxley.
2. Comparisons
Both Pawbert Lynxley and Ebenezer Lynxley share the same eye colors and have used poison venom to attempt/commit murder. In addition they have had partnerships with a snake prior to their betrayal.
Pawbert Lynxley's eye color is the same eye color as Ebenezer Lynxley, despite the fact that Pawbert is less like the Lynxley family than the Lynxley family given his runt status.
Pawbert used poison venom to attempt the murders of Judy Hopps, Nibbles Maplestick, and Nick Wilde, while throwing Gary out to the cold and stealing his venom pen.
Ebenezer Lynxley also used poison venom when killing the tortoise maid.
Prior to Ebenezer's framing of Agnes, he had a business deal with her. 
He purposely stole her journal, ripped out her patent, and forged a false patent claiming he wrote the journal in its place.
Pawbert also had a partnership with Gary.
However, Pawbert is not as evil as Ebenezer, despite the eye color, weapon, and partnership similarities.
Aside from Ebenezer, Pawbert also shares qualities with the tortoise maid in that he works in the mailroom for his father, just as the maid worked for Ebenezer Lynxley.
In addition, when Kitty found an evidence bag with fur, claiming it was someone who helped Judy and Gary, Milton immediately recognizes it as Pawbert's fur. He orders that Pawbert be found, tracking his location in attempts to kill him, Judy, and Gary.
This is similar to the tortoise maid, who Ebenezer attempts to kill for interfering with his schemes: Milton attempts to kill Pawbert because he (mis)perceived him as helping Gary De'Snake, like the tortoise maid was helping Agnes De'Snake.
However, while the tortoise maid is left to die and is successfully killed directly by Ebenezer Lynxley, Pawbert was indirectly attempted to be murdered by Milton Lynxley via Captain Hoggbottom, and it was not successful: he was saved by Judy.
Not only that Pawbert Lynxley becomes more like his family after betraying Judy and Gary, something the tortoise maid would never do knowing her death. Even though he does it for his family's love and approval, it is nevertheless heinous and condemmable.
3. What does this mean?
Pawbert Lynxley shares similarities with his grandfather, but due to contrast in motives and backstory, he also shares similarities with the tortoise maid. Nevertheless the main similarities are Pawbert's eye color and the weapons he used.
Many Pawbert fans have been calling for Pawbert's redemption arc, as he was committing heinous crimes to gain approval from his family. His motives have been changed multiple times because of his feminized backstory.
If he is getting redemption, what do the eyes indicate? The eyes are similar to Ebenezer Lynxley, who is considered irredeemable. Plus both used poison venom.
There is a reason he is given the same eye color as Ebenezer.  
The directors wanted to stand him out as a villain while the other Lynxleys were not as important. He tried to be like Ebenezer, his great-grandfather, to be as Lynxley as he can.
Do the eyes indicate he won't get redemption because he is the most Lynxley of them all, given the poison venom and yellow eyes?  
OR  
He is getting a redemption arc and will subvert this stereotype, knowing he only was like that out of approval and belonging and not racism?
These are the comments Jared Bush made regarding the matter. 
Bush claimed he could have chose to be different but chose to be like his family.
However, as a director he is not allowed to give spoilers for Zootopia 3, so nothing can be said for sure.
A deleted version of Milton Lynxley's abuse towards Pawbert Lynxley reveals how Disney had to tone down the abuse of Pawbert Lynxley to make it viewable for kids. It reveals the extent of treatment to which Pawbert Lynxley had to face.
#pawbertlynxley #zootopia2
While the abuse scene was more intensive (just like this deleted animation) in the novel version compared to the movie version, it does not change the fact his motives were feminized in the movie compared to the film.
Most novel versions are different from the movies. This applies to this novel version as well. But he had more changes than most novel versions of movie characters because of how his backstory contrasted with his original motives.
Usually for novel versions, the character is toned down for the movie version to make the scenes less intensive and more family friendly. However, still, Pawbert faced more changes than most novel-to-movie changes, as his motives were changed.
Sketches of Pawbert Lynxley made by staff at Walt Disney Animation Studios reveal how even staff knew how feminized Pawbert Lynxley was after his backstory was finalized, which clashed with his original motives.
#pawbertlynxley #zootopia2
Because of his backstory and the undertones it gave, even staff had the impression she was a female.
While some of Pawbert's fans have claimed the feminized lynx to be Kitty, his older sister, the sweater, facial expressions, and pose is more resemblant of Pawbert Lynxley.
Staff have also drawn him being paired with Gary De'Snake, despite claims from Zootopia fans he is a colonialist and Gary is the oppressed. This really shows, on top of art and merchandise pairing the two, that Pawbert and Gary were meant to be a pair.
Behind the photo also shows concept art for Ebenezer Lynxley, the Lynxley family, and Pawbert Lynxley.
Pawbert Lynxley's humanization: its history and what should have been done
#pawbertlynxley #zootopia2
1. Introduction
Pawbert Lynxley serves as the secondary antagonist of Zootopia 2. He is a Canada lynx with light gray fur, a white muzzle, and black markings who wears a dark green sweater with light accents, and brown trousers.
Like many anthropomorphized non-human characters, the Zootopia characters, including Pawbert, have been subject to humanization. 
Pawbert is a Canada Lynx, indicating as a human he would be of North American descent, either from Canada or the United States.
2. Hairstyle
Most artists have drawn Pawbert Lynxley with neat short hair to shoulder length, color coded based on his fur, and the outfits that he wore in the film.
While most humanized fanart has not drawn him as bald, some Zootopia fans have claimed he actually is bald given his siblings have hair unlike him. It is possible he was not balding but that his hair was not styled so it was not emphasized, as Cattrick also barely had hair.
Sang Jun Lee, the Art Director for Zootopia 2, revealed: 
"Pawbert Lynxley... wants to command respect but just can't, unlike the rest of his family. I reflected those qualities in his design, exaggerating the length and curl of his whiskers, outfitting him in knit sweaters..."
Pawbert Lynxley was neglected by his family. Most neglected children barely get haircuts and have messier hair. Lee exaggerated his whiskers not only in curl (emphasizing its messiness), but also length, indicating he most likely had very long hair rather than balding.
The average terminal hair length for adults is 39 inches (1 meter). Often that means the hair is past waist length. Some adults have shorter terminal length to mid back. Even if the hair were to be shorter than average terminal, it would often still be far past shoulder length.
Given this, for his human version his hair would extremely long and messy due to the neglect he faced, which means it would not be shoulder length or shorter but longer. The assumption he would be bald is less likely.
3. Height
Most fans have drawn Pawbert Lynxley as a person of average to tall height, ignoring family dynamics and species differences.
Villains Wiki describes Pawbert Lynxley as a tall lynx. However, in reality that is only due to species: naturally because he is a lynx, he has to be taller than Judy and Nick, in animal form.
Pawbert Lynxley is not tall. He is shorter than all of his family members, as revealed in this artwork by Ami Thompson, who helped develop artwork for Zootopia 2. Pawbert is also a full grown adult here, as hinted in the fact Cattrick and Kitty wore similar clothes in the movie.
Pawbert Lynxley is a full grown adult. As revealed by co-director Jared Bush in a recent Q & A, he is in his early 30s. This shocked many Zootopia fans, as fans previously thought he was in his early 20s due to his immaturity.
Most male children are taller than their fathers at adulthood. In the movie he is revealed to be shorter than his father Milton, who may have shrunk due to older age.
Pawbert Lynxley is shorter than his sister Kitty, who is around Milton's height, by more than half a head.
The average height for a Canadian/American male is 5 feet 9 inches (175 cm) and female 5 feet 4 inches (162.3 cm). Most male children are taller than their fathers at adulthood.
According to a research publication using MRI scans for the National Library of Medicine, the average head height is 7.09 to 7.87 inches (18-20 cm).
Assuming the head height is average for the Lynxley family, Pawbert Lynxley would be shorter than his sister Kitty, who is around Milton's height, by half a head or even more, which is equal to at least 3.5 inches (8.89 cm).
Given how short he is compared to his siblings, assuming his sister is of average female height he would be shorter than even an average female. Even if his sister was taller than the average female and his father shrunk to average male height, he would still be short.
He is not a tall lynx. He is a short lynx. While he is taller than Nick Wilde and Judy Hopps, this is due to his species. In human form, Nick and Judy would be of average height, not have a big height difference. Pawbert as a human would not be tall compared to them.
A full summary of Pawbert Lynxley and everything going on
#pawbertlynxley #zootopia2
Pawbert Lynxley serves as the secondary antagonist of Zootopia 2. Despite the large fanbase he gained shortly after release, his characterization was changed multiple times, with the last version being made 5-7 months before release.
Pawbert Lynxley is often shipped with Gary De'Snake due to their former partnership prior to his betrayal. The reaction is mixed. While most support it, some criticized that it shipped a victim with his "oppressor", though Disney has promoted the pairing.
Pawbert Lynxley is the only Lynxley family member that has the same eye colors as his great-grandfather, Ebenezer. While the two share in common the weapon used (poison venom), direct interactions with a snake, and eye color, the motives are different.
Pawbert Lynxley's motives originally, while different, were more evil. His main motivation was to become the Lynxley patriarch that succeeded Milton Lynxley, who succeeded Ebenezer Lynxley's father, who succeeded Ebenezer Lynxley.
However, since he was going to be a twist villain like Dawn Bellwether, instead of a standard villain, they needed to provide a backstory for him to connect his facade with his villainy.
The backstory they came up with, given his awkward facade they brainstormed, was so feminized, they had to change his motives from being the power hungry heir to approval and love, as being a Cinderella archetype would not match well for his then-motives.
These changes were made 5-7 months before the production. His villainy was also toned down. Andy Samberg was also cast during the same time frame to  maintain his silliness before villainy and keep him awkward even after he becomes a villain.
Had Zootopia 2 been released later rather than earlier, this would have affected Pawbert's name, gender, and appearance, as well as Andy Samberg's role within the film.
Had this have happened, what would have it been for the teasers, where everyone thought or wanted Lynxley to be a girl? What about for the handful who believed otherwise?
Because of how feminized he was as a villain, a few of his fandom used "she/her" pronouns for him or preferred drawing him as female. Given this, some Zootopia fans have drawn or even questioned his gender.
People have also shipped him with his family, especially in Korea, aside from the common "Pawbert X Gary" ship, despite the fact that Pawbert Lynxley has been abused by his family and incest is illegal worldwide due to genetic and social problems.
Pawbert's fandom has received criticism for only supporting him because of his supposed male gender. While male characters do have misogynistic fans and Pawbert has an advantage (canon male), had everyone seen the truth, they would've withdrew support.
They have also received criticism for supporting incest, for calling him misunderstood, or rooting for his redemption too soon, even though many have stood against him being freed too soon and stood against incest shipping.
Pawbert Lynxley's fandom is divided: some refer to him as a colonialist who is iredeemable, while the other side knows the nuances to which he was abused believing he is tragic, with some rooting for his redemption.
People have mistaken Kitty Lynxley to be younger than Cattrick Lynxley, when in reality they are twins. Some wikis have not yet made changes, even after co-director Jared Bush confirmed they were twins.
All of the divided fandom debates and errors were made because of the characterization process and promotions, which confused viewers.
Whenever humanized, he is often drawn as tall or of average height and with short to medium length hair. However, his height differences relative to his family, the species dynamics of the characters, and his whisker exaggeration contradict those claims.
While previously it was claimed Pawbert could have been a girl had he been fully developed, Easter eggs have shown it may not be the case, but even then it does not change Pawbert's femininity as it only proves Gary's sex rather than his femininity.

Date effective: April 26, 2026
