About Titus (from Press Kit, Villains Wiki, titusite Tumblr, and TITUS MAIL Substack)
Hoppers Press Kit description:
Insect Queen is the most respected and feared member of the all-seeing and all-powerful Council. She rules over her subjects and her spoiled, bloodthirsty son with a tiny iron fist, and the grandeur of a human royal. Her subjects are the most numerous on Earth, and the fact that they are constantly getting eaten by literally everyone else has shaped her bitter, hard-won wisdom and given her no illusions about the nature of power.
Titus is the demanding, spoiled spawn of the Insect Queen. Squish-thirsty and hungry for power, it’s best to stay out of his way while he transforms into an even more entitled version of himself– the Insect King.
Brief Description:
Titus, also known as the Insect King (formerly the Insect Prince), is the main antagonist of Pixar's 30th full-length animated feature film Hoppers.
He is the son and right-hand of the Insect Queen. Following his mother's accidental death at the hands of Mabel Tanaka, he sets a plan to eliminate humans and all vertebrates so the invertebrates including insects and other arthropods can rule over the Earth. While enacting his plans, he posed himself as Mayor Jerry Generazzo to appeal to the public. He is also the temporary leader of the Animal Council, as well as the arch-nemesis of Mabel, King George and Jerry Generazzo, serving as a dark reflection of what the latter would've become if he hadn’t changed his ways.
As a monarch caterpillar, he was voiced by Eman Abdul-Razzak in her first villainous role. As a monarch butterfly, he was voiced by Dave Franco, who also played Eric Molson in 21 Jump Street, Pete Regazolli in Neighbors, and the Riddler in Young Justice.
Physical Appearance:
Titus started out as a small monarch caterpillar with black stripes, a pale yellow underbelly, a unibrow that acts as his eyes when he is angry or happy, and sharp teeth (though they are only seen through the reflection of the Fish Queen's bowl).
After pupation, he became a small monarch butterfly with a dark skin. His wings are intense orange and he sports a small crown on his head. He constantly sports a malicious, sadistic grin with the sharp teeth that he still retains, symbolizing his evil and wicked nature.
In his Jerry hopper, he looks exactly like Jerry in both appearance and attire, but the only difference is that his pupils are much smaller than those of the real Jerry.
Personality:
Titus displays deep misanthropy due to his mother being accidentally killed by a human. As a caterpillar, Titus initially came across as bratty, arrogant, and disrespectful toward others, including his own mother. After assuming his mother's crown upon her death and pupating into a butterfly, he becomes extremely murderous, cruel, psychotic, sadistic, vindictive and bloodthirsty, desiring to "squish" all humans.
He has an immature and boisterous disposition and is quick to throw tantrums whenever something doesn't go his way. Titus is a very power-hungry and entitled megalomaniac, who seeks to establish invertebrates including insects and other arthropods as the dominant species ruling over both humans and vertebrates in retaliation for the countless times insects have been crushed or eaten. Unlike Jerry, who in spite of his greed, does have some redeeming and affable qualities such as his love for his mother, Titus never truly loved his mother and openly admits that he had long awaited her death so he could seize control, using her demise merely as a convenient justification to pursue his ambitions.
He also proves himself to be quite manipulative and treacherous, as he fakes an alliance with the other animal monarchs with the intention of betraying and eliminating them once they have served their purpose. This ultimately reveals that Titus has no real concern for the balance of nature or the well-being of others. He even proved to be a pure hypocrite, while telling Mabel he's just like Jerry for using George, but he himself was genuinely using everyone to his advantage to kill everyone, and unlike her, Mabel only wanted to save nature and stop Jerry from hurting animals.
Overall, Titus is a spoiled, unhinged, malicious and self-centered tyrant whose actions are driven solely by his own ruthless ambition and desire for absolute power.
Biography:
When Jerry, enraged by the animals' renewed resistance, blows up the beavers' dam and installs additional noise-emitting speakers on trees to drive them away, Mabel and George convene a meeting of the Animal Council in the Superlodge, attended by delegates from various species, consisting of the Insect, Amphibian, Fish, Reptile and Bird monarchs. Among them is Titus, the bratty son of the Insect Queen, who, like the others, was impatient for the meeting. Initially, the other rulers are reluctant to take action, as according to the Bird King, humans fall under George's jurisdiction as the Mammal King, given that humans are mammals too. However, when Mabel presents them the noise-making trees, she warns that their land is at risk of being taken over by Jerry, whom she refers to as the Human King. This revelation instills fear among the animals. As Mabel continues, she criticizes the council for their ignorance in addressing the situation.
Titus, taken aback by her boldness, calls her a commoner, but the Insect Queen intervenes, allowing Mabel to proceed. Mabel urges the council to protect their homes, which prompts the Insect Queen to suggest a drastic solution: to "squish" the humans, implying their extermination. Titus quickly supports this idea, citing the numerous insects killed by humans, and soon the other animals rally around the plan to eliminate the human race as a means to protect the glade. Mabel and George begin to reconsider this violent approach, inciting the Insect Queen's fury as she chastises Mabel, while Titus finds amusement in the chaos. The situation escalates when Mabel accidentally kills the Insect Queen by squishing her, leaving Titus and the others in shock. As a result, Mabel becomes a target herself, forcing her and George to flee the Superlodge in a panic.
The Animal Council was left at a complete loss for words after the shocking events that had unfolded. They also discovered a robotic arm belonging to one of the Hoppers, revealing that humans were now masquerading as them. Overcome with grief, Titus demanded silence from the council, insisting on respect for his mother. While the council expressed their condolences for the Insect Queen's demise, Titus' sorrow and grief quickly transformed into laughter. He dismissed their pity, rushing to claim his mother’s crown and declaring himself the Insect King, a role he had long awaited for his entire life. With newfound determination over the Hopper technology, Titus resolved to use it so that he can lead an attack against Jerry and the human race. However, before he could take action, he underwent a metamorphosis into a monarch butterfly, a transformation that elicited disgust from the other animals when he began to weave his cocoon.
As Titus remained nestled in his cocoon, the Council tried to eliminate Jerry by dispatching Diane Shark for the task. However, their efforts were thwarted by Mabel and her friends from the Superlodge, who believed that if Jerry called off the highway, it would deter the Council from pursuing him. Despite their hopes, Jerry stood firm in his decision, prompting Mabel to betray him by informing the Council of his whereabouts. In that moment, Sam untethers Mabel from the robotic beaver, leaving George devastated upon realizing that Mabel was in fact human.
With the knowledge over Jerry's location and the Hopper tech, the Council raided Sam's lab, tied up Jerry and Mabel and forced the scientists to build a robotic clone of Jerry for Titus to inhabit. Once Titus emerged from his cocoon as a monarch butterfly, he transferred his consciousness into the Jerry robot, finding it amusing and superior to his original form, despite struggling to control it. Titus then reveals his ultimate plan: he will masquerade as Jerry during the political rally, where he will program all the noise-emitting speakers to release frequencies that can be fatal to human brains, thus killing all the humans in attendance and allowing Titus and the animals to rise up. A horrified Mabel attempted to reason with Titus by arguing that not all humans were alike, but Titus countered her pleas by highlighting on both her and Jerry's deceitful actions, using George as a living testament to her supposed betrayal. Titus rallied the Council and a reluctant George away from the lab, leading them outside to set his plan into motion. This leaves Mabel extremely heartbroken; even a devastated Jerry realizes that he's gonna be held responsible for Titus' actions that will destroy his reputation and end up in serious trouble with the authorities.
At the rally, Titus (posing in as Jerry) gathers the citizens together and gave an uncomfortable speech, asking if anyone had ever squished an insect. To his surprise, nearly every hand shot up in response, which struck a nerve in Titus just as he was about to activate the speakers by using Jerry's phone that he stole. Meanwhile, Mabel, who had escaped with Jerry's assistance, arrived with the hope of encouraging Titus to find redemption. She apologized for accidentally causing his mother's death, but Titus, seemingly reluctant, dismissed her apology, stating that he felt indifferent due to his mother's frail age. But Mabel empathized with Titus, acknowledging that both of them had felt powerless at times, leading to impulsive decisions. She insisted that it wasn't too late for change, emphasizing that humans and animals could coexist peacefully, quoting George's belief that human and animal homes are part of the same environment. This caused Titus to break down into tears initially, but he eventually bursted into maniacal laughter before mocking Mabel, making it perfectly clear that he has no intention to back down on his plan.
However, Titus soon learned too late of Mabel's backup plan, which involved severing his connection to the robot Jerry, pulling him back to his original body while she attempted to seize the phone. George tried to intervene, but the Council restrained him. As Titus jumped back into the robot Jerry, a tug-of-war ensued between him and Mabel for the phone, resulting in it slipping from their grasp and landing atop one of the trees. Titus hurried to retrieve the phone as he crawls like an animal, making the other citizens realize in horror that he's not the real Jerry. Even when the real Jerry tried to intervene by using the Hopper tech to take control of a robotic beaver, Titus destroys the robotic beaver. Climbing the tree, Titus gets hindered by Mabel, who clung to his face, causing his silicon mask to come off. Although Titus grabs the phone, he realized he couldn't unlock it as it requires a face scan from the silicon mask to gain access.
Mabel declares to Titus that his plan is falling apart and that he must give up on it, but Titus angrily refuses to back down, ranting out his true intention to use the noise-emitting speakers to not only eliminate the human race, but also the other animals as well so that the insects themselves can take control of the world as their own hive. Unbeknownst to Titus, his confession is overheard by the Animal Council, who realized in horror that Titus was using them as patsies and that he will eliminate them afterwards. The situation escalates when the tree gets toppled, leading to the destruction of the Jerry robot the rally stage, which severs Titus' connection to the robot and ignites a massive wildfire that will threaten to destroy both Beaverton and the forest.
As George rushes off to help extinguish the flames, he tells the Animal Council to reflect on their indecision about whether to take action or remain passive. As the Council grapples with their choice, Titus shows no concern over the gravity of his actions as he foolishly berates the others for ignoring him, and presses on with his willingness to let the wildfire burn everything down and his ambition to lead the insect race to rule the world. However, the Amphibian King, who has finally had enough of Titus' maniacal behavior, interrupts him by devouring him alive, even smiling after doing so. The Council would then proceed to help the others in extinguishing the wildfire by breaking the beaver dam, thus saving Beaverton and the forest and leaving Titus' plans in vain.
With Titus gone, one of the ants is crowned the new Insect Queen and the new leader of the Animal Council; even Jerry himself agreed to redirect the highway project to a different location that would leave the forest as a wildlife preserve, much to Mabel, George, and all the animals' delight, with them rebuilding a new and improved glade without a beaver dam. However, Sam is forced to permanently disband the Hoppers program due to public outcry over Mabel and Titus' actions that almost endangered the forest and city in the first place.
Analysis:
To be honest, the reading of how Titus is basically a woman disguising herself as a man who fails so badly, is truly what makes him more hilarious as a villain.
Titus was the spoiled, bratty daughter of the Insect Queen. When Titus was a little girl, she was spoiled and very demanding and rude. She would tell her mother she wanted to go home or sadistically agree with her mother to “squish” (kill) Mayor Jerry Generazzo after she makes the plan to have Jerry killed, to which Mabel Tanaka (as a beaver) and King George disagree.
After they disagree, the Insect Queen fights back, only for Mabel to accidentally kill her.
The crown falls as the Insect Queen dies. Titus then is horrified her mother dies. She starts seeking vengeance against Mabel for the death of her mother.
But later, she cries about her mother’s death and seconds later steals her mother’s crown and takes it as an opportunity to usurp the throne as the new Insect Queen. She always wanted to be queen. Spoiled, bratty, power hungry princess she is.
She says she is king though. Why? Well, later on, she says as king she will first pupate.
And once she pupates, she pupated into a butterfly… only to show off her transformation as…
That’s how he became the Insect King. He is recrowned by a snake as the Insect King. His plan: to masquerade as Mayor Jerry at the political rally so that he can make an uncomfortable speech about how humans have squished insects and how he could do the same to humans.
Except even though Titus is supposed to masquerade herself as a male Mayor, she just cannot do it because she does not feel comfortable being male, so she removes the tie, even if he becomes less convincing and more inappropriate at the political rally because of it. Despite being a young teenage girl disguising herself as a middle-aged man, she still fits the archetype of a femme fatale because she still seduces to show how power hungry she is. Even if she only shows off her body during the male disguise, she clearly feels uncomfortable being fully male and he just wants to get his job done in a larger body.
Even though he removed his tie, he continues to mock Jerry taking over Jerry’s place at his relection. He steals Jerry’s phone using it to increase the sound waves to make their ears hurt so bad they eventually die. Thats how Titus, as fake Jerry, plots his vengeance to destroy humans.
Mabel eventually fights back trying to tell him to redeem himself and change for the better, only for him to double down on his villainy.
Mabel then with her backup plan tries to disable Titus’ male disguise. George, the king beaver, stands up to Titus, back in her butterfly form, only for the council to stop George.
And so, Titus regains his conscience as the male fake Mayor, only to have his mask removed, this is how people knew (and some knew from the start) he was not the real Mayor. His face recognition fails which is how his plan fails.
He drops the radio boxes, leading to the chaotic fire. His robot is destroyed, which makes the fire more intense.
His robot body is now gone. And so he returns to… her butterfly form. And she is eaten by the amphibian king.
After she dies, she is succeeded by an ant, who is also female, making her the third Insect Queen, succeeding Titus’ mother and later Titus herself.
The ant was revealed to be female in the film’s novelization.
The fact that the Insect Queen (her predecessor) and the ant (her sucessor) are all female, really shows the mastermind behind the Jerry robot disguise was the female caterpillar we see when Mabel and George meet the Insect Queen at the Animal Council, as she had no father or siblings, only a mother.
Pixar marketed Titus as male because he disguised himself as male and he needed a masculine voice to keep up with his male disguise. He is marketed as the Insect Prince and later the Insect King as we see in promos.
To some extent this is true: she does become King rather than Queen at some point. He does genuinely become King: as she pupates herself, she knew she was going to eventually become a robot clone of Jerry and as such declared herself King. Plus, as the self-proclaimed Insect King, he is known by his disguise by his henchmen (the Animal Council) rather than her true butterfly form. She is marketed as the Prince, which is genius as it shows or hint at his true nature as the robot Jerry, even though she is technically an Insect Princess rather than an Insect Prince. Though at the same time, I (and many others) can understand and see how she does not sound like a boy at all, but rather a bratty spoiled girl, even if women can and do voice boys sounding like boys unlike Titus. Which makes it more hilarious as she not only pretended to be Jerry and felt no remorse for her actions, she was a female butterfly who always had plans to disguise herself as male to complete her evil plans. Plus with how she fails badly, makes her hilarious and dark at the same time.
On March 20, 2026, Koko Yang (she/her), an artist who helped with the production of Pixar’s 2026 film Hoppers, drew human versions of the Hoppers animal council, making it one of the few official humanizations from behind the scenes! Here is the drawings she made:
Titus as a prince, where he is seen with blonde short hair, black streaks, a crown, and a suit with a cape, with yellow shoes.
This was apparently his king version. His hair becomes darker, and they gave him some bangs and blonde streaks. They also changed his jacket to make it more like a suit. Also his shoes have slightly different patterns.
The expressions they drew with Titus as a prince. Look at the emotions he is showing!!!
Now onto personal thoughts, Yang did a great job. I do have to say though, even though Titus was referred to with he/him pronouns in the novelization, the press kit, and referred to as king rather than queen (unlike the mother) by most of the characters (excluding the mother and any insect) in the story, I am quite shocked with the short hair and suit choice when first seeing it.
Knowing Eman Abdul-Razzak, a female Pixar lighting artist, voiced Titus as a caterpillar (“Insect Prince”), I’m sure just by her high pitched voice alone, most perceived her as a female character rather than a man, at least when she was a caterpillar. There have been many female adults who voiced young boys, such as Nick Wilde in the Zootopia franchise, whose younger version was voiced by Kath Soucie, an adult voice actress, so at first glance Titus could be a little boy. While little boys do have more higher-pitched voices because their voices have not dropped and some women can voice them neutrally without giving away feminine energy perfectly, Titus just does not give that vibe. She sounds so girly, not just neutral, with her mannerisms and tone. Plus even if she did sound neutral enough, it does not make sense plot wise for her to be a little boy (or girl), especially since if her mother did not die, she would have remained a caterpillar. It is implied that she waited for her mother to die to pupate, though at some point when she is fully grown she would have pupated herself at some point, thereby proving she is most likely an adult/teenager throughout the film and did not really age from child to teenager/adult throughout the film. Not to forget, she is also more like a teenager than a child because of her vocabulary usage. Given this, if she were male and a teenager or adult, his voice would’ve dropped by now, and he would’ve always been voiced by Dave Franco from start to finish.
Not to forget, even if we were to forget all this and assume Titus was in fact a male child and not a teenager, he would be the only male of the Insect Queen hierarchy, which makes no sense whatsoever given his father and brothers were never mentioned, not even once in the story. It was proven in the novelization the ant is female, with no evidence to back up otherwise as she barely had a role in the story aside from leading an army of ants to help end the forest fire.
Given all this, he is not a little boy, all of this has been debunked by his age and hierarchy. Even though he is referred to with he/him and the ant as she/her, there is no proof otherwise that the ant is male, but there is proof otherwise regarding Titus being male: they are using he/him for Titus because they did not want to give away that she was actually a female butterfly. Her main actress is Eman Abdul-Razzak, but they focused more on Dave Franco, so that they could fully focus on his disguise as the male Mayor Jerry Generazzo, because this is the main disguise he uses to double down on his villainy. The reason Dave Franco voiced him as a butterfly and not Eman Abdul-Razzak is not because he aged suddenly by multiple years but because he needed a male voice to fit with his male mayor disguise. Women usually cannot have a deep enough voice to impersonate a male mayor without tiring themselves during an election speech, even if they trained their voices a lot, which is why his Mayor robot has a different voice from his caterpillar version. If his voice did indeed drop genuinely, it makes no sense to be honest given his timeline and is a failure on the director’s part.
Plus, all that aside, let’s not forget how when Titus disguised herself as Jerry, he deliberately chose to remove his tie, despite being knowledgeable about humans enough to squish them or make human robot versions of them and it being inappropriate behavior to show off his chest, which would have made his disguise less convincing.
That being said, nevertheless, I really love the artwork! Personally, I wanted to draw Titus and planned to make a doll of her but never got the chance to do either, and when doing so I always envisioned Titus to have long hair and wear dresses. This drawing Yang made really gives an alternative perspective on Titus and showcases an alternative interpretation that rather than being ultra feminine she is actually butch. It is a stark contrast to the diva-like energy she gave throughout the film, even when she spent more time being disguised as the mayor than she did as an insect overall.
I really wish Titus was butch, but honestly I think this artwork was most certainly (and sadly) an early stage (they even say so themselves in the captions) because I’m pretty sure this was all done before they put casting Eman (or any actress) into thought when casting her. Like I’m sure her of Titus must have changed as more development was being made and that at some point “Insect Prince” or “Insect King” was meant to be deceiving rather than genuine and mainly used to make her more deceiving as a villain or as foreshadowing of her main presence which is as a male Mayor, not a female insect unlike her mother or successor. She is referred to as King or Prince because she is a tomboy as shown in her deliberate choice to even disguise herself as Jerry. She also is deceiving in that she is the surprise main villain. She was announced far later than Jerry. Before she was announced, everyone thought Jerry was going to be the main antagonist, they never thought Titus was going to exist or even be a character within the story.
While I have my doubts, I can only hope the directors envision Titus remained butch even when she is female and that she still wears suits and has short hair. Like we’ve already had it with Nibbles Maplestick in Zootopia 2, voiced by Fortune Feimster who is a lesbian and somewhat butch, and she is truly a gem, albeit underrated. She’s also a beaver like Mabel Tanaka (in her robot hopper form) and King George, the main characters of Hoppers, so that’s nice!!!
Titus’s Pupation and Voice Observations
One thing that many notice but don’t point out is that Titus, then the “Insect Prince”, only pupated herself after her mother’s death and that had her mother not been accidentally squished by Mabel Tanaka, she would not have been a caterpillar by the time the story has ended.
This indicates that it was not due to necessary puberty but rather more unnatural form that she was able to pupate into her butterfly. It can even be said that she deliberately delayed this phase because she was waiting for her mother to die, meaning she would not only be a preteen or teenager but an adult while she was a caterpillar.
Regardless of age this all indicates that between caterpillar and butterfly she did not age by that much. Adding on to this is the fact that she is voiced by 2 actors: Eman Abdul-Razzak for the caterpillar (“Insect Prince”) and Dave Franco for the robot version of Mayor Jerry (“Insect King”). The butterfly only got around 5 seconds of screentime and was switching consciences between the “Mayor Jerry” robot and “butterfly” so it stayed as Dave Franco rather than being voiced by Eman Abdul-Razzak, this is not due to Titus’ voice genuinely dropping but because the robot that Titus engineered was programmed with a male voice and the directors were lazy or wanted to keep consistency because Titus was gonna turn back to the “Mayor Jerry” robot anyway. Plus, after Titus pupates she becomes the male mayor robot and not the butterfly.
While most male characters have two voice actors due to childhood vs adult, Titus was never really a child-> adult scenario but rather teenager-> teenager or adult -> adult considering the unnatural pupation rather than genuine puberty she went through considering she waited for her mom to die before pupating and had she not died she would not have pupated herself in the first place. Plus, as a caterpillar, she sounded more like a teenage or adult woman than she sounds like a child (even though both have high pitched voices). As see here below, the caterpillar sounds like a girl and not just a child.
Because they knew of Titus as the Insect Queen’s bratty daughter and not a “Insect Prince”, when the former princess hailed herself as king, people were hesitant to hail her because she is a queen and not a king. However, Titus still hailed herself as king because Jerry was revealed to the council earlier by Mabel to be the “human king” and she had plans to imperaonate Mayor Jerry so she could kill him and other humans, and in order to do all of that she had to be king and not queen.
If Titus was genuinely a male heir I doubt they would be as hesitant in hailing him as king. Like she was the heir to the queen she was going to be queen after her mom died this was why she attended the council and not her siblings (if she even had any).
They did not know of her as a prince. Throughout the story in canon, not once has she been called the prince. The only place where she is ever called that is the credits but that’s also the same as the promotion actors name, so it is more on the producer’s parts than her being genuinely a prince. I feel like Mabel and George knew Titus was a girl while Jerry didn’t. While George does refer to Titus as Insect King, it was because she declared herself as King before plus she technically was King especially as the Jerry robot as she spent more time as the male robot than she spent as a female butterfly.
Commentary:
From Insect to Robot: The Failed Disguise of Titus in Pixar film Hoppers
A closer look at power, identity, and why Titus’s impersonation of Mayor Jerry collapses so spectacularly.
TITUS MAIL
Apr 10, 2026
Titus becomes Insect King (Photo Credit: Pixar)
Pixar’s 30th full-length animated feature film Hoppers was first announced by Pete Docter at the D23 Ultimate Disney Fan Event on August 9, 2024. Since then, Mayor Jerry Generazzo was hyped as the main antagonist due to promotional teasers portraying him as such, so everyone believed he was going to be the main villain.
Mayor Jerry D23 Teaser (Photo Credit: Pixar)
But things took a turn when the Insect Queen, the Insect Prince, and the Insect King were first introduced on February 6, 2026, just a month before the film’s release through multiple teasers.
Official teasers for Titus, the Insect Prince and later Insect King alongside his mother, the Insect Queen
Official teasers for Titus, the Insect Prince and later Insect King alongside his mother, the Insect Queen
Official teasers for Titus, the Insect Prince and later Insect King alongside his mother, the Insect Queen
Official teasers for Titus, the Insect Prince and later Insect King alongside his mother, the Insect Queen (Photo Credit: Pixar)
These are the official descriptions for these said characters by the Hoppers Press Kit:
Insect Queen is the most respected and feared member of the all-seeing and all-powerful Council. She rules over her subjects and her spoiled, bloodthirsty son with a tiny iron fist, and the grandeur of a human royal. Her subjects are the most numerous on Earth, and the fact that they are constantly getting eaten by literally everyone else has shaped her bitter, hard-won wisdom and given her no illusions about the nature of power.
Titus is the demanding, spoiled spawn of the Insect Queen. Squish-thirsty and hungry for power, it’s best to stay out of his way while he transforms into an even more entitled version of himself– the Insect King.
These descriptions alone hinted at the Insect King being Titus himself rather than him being the father of the Insect Prince or husband to Insect Queen and at Titus being the real main villain rather than Jerry, as shown by the usage of words and phrases like “bloodthirsty” and “stay out of his way”.
And through all this, it also had revealed that Titus would be voiced by two actors: Dave Franco as the Insect King and Eman Abdul-Razzak as the Insect Prince. Why did Eman Abdul-Razzak, a female lighting artist at Pixar, choose to voice the Insect Prince, despite being female herself?
Most plausibly, it is the same reason Nick Wilde, a popular character from another Disney film, Zootopia, was voiced by Jason Bateman as an adult and Kath Soucie as a child.
Except…
It is proven that this is not the case multiple times throughout the film once it was released. Not only was he indeed the real main antagonist, but his titles “Insect King” and “Insect Prince” are shown to be rather deceptive and mainly used as marketing to hint at his deceptive villainous reveal later on in the movie.
As seen in the film, Mabel Tanaka, who previously transferred her conscience from her human body to a beaver robot in a science lab, accidentally killed the Insect Queen, allowing Titus to usurp the same title as his mother did, except as King, and reveal his plans to the Animal Council:
Human weaponry... clever, but no match for the fury and might of nature! Soon, Jerry shall be squished, his crown at our feet. And then, the real fun can begin. But first... attend me as I pupate!
From left to right: Mabel accidentally kills the Insect Queen and Titus begins pupating (Photo Credit: Pixar)
While he was voiced by Franco and not Abdul-Razzak after pupation, was it really because of puberty or was it because of something deeper? Well, it has been implied that Titus only pupated to usurp the throne, not because he naturally was on the phase of doing so. In other words, he would have remained a caterpillar if it were not for his mother’s death, showing that as he became a butterfly, his age remained the same. Titus always has been a teenager throughout the story from start to finish. Despite the fact that he is a teenager, his vocal tone and mannerisms of Titus as a caterpillar, as voiced by Abdul-Razzak, is high-pitched, despite the fact that in his age range, his voice would have dropped and been deeper by then, at least by Pixar standards.
And if it cannot get any more contrasting than this, his voice deliberately sounds much more feminine than neutral, unlike most male child characters voiced by women, as he sounded and talked like a bratty female teenager rather than neutral unlike most male child characters throughout his time as a caterpillar. After completing the process of metamorphosis (pupating himself), he revealed his voice dropped and that he pupated himself to a man. At first glance it could reveal puberty, but his reasoning for pupation, as mentioned before, says otherwise. Plus, this process was completed in the science lab where Mabel previously transferred her conscience to the beaver robot only to be transformed back to her human form, where instead of a butterfly, Titus immediately as a butterfly transferred his conscience into a human robot he forced scientists to create. This implies that his voice did not drop due to puberty but due to him needing a male voice to make his disguise more convincing. That being said, what is the robot prototype Titus transformed himself into?
Silhouette of what Titus was pupated into (Photo Credit: Pixar)
It is none other than Mayor Jerry, who was coincidentally formerly played to be the villain in teasers, and barely seen in his true butterfly form. “Jerry” eats a leaf, which reveals the mastermind behind “Jerry” was indeed Titus after his completion of the metamorphosis phase, and is crowned by the Snake Queens as the “Insect King”, as he gets closer to the real Mayor Jerry.
Titus's reveal and coronation after metamorphosis (Photo Credit: Pixar)
“Jerry” is then seen removing his tie. While removing he quotes
What is this... A TAIL for your NECK?!
“Jerry” removes his tie (Photo Credit: Pixar)
and shows off his chest inappropriately, with yet another quote:
A true king would bear the lushness of its plumage for all to see!
“Jerry” shows off his “plumage” (Photo Credit: Pixar)
Why did “Jerry” remove his tie? Villains Wiki, a common database on Fandom for villains in movies and similar media, reveals he removed the tie because he did not know that humans wear ties. However, is this really the case when he was the one who engineered this robot and knew exactly his plan which was this: to masquerade as Jerry during the political rally, where he will program all the noise-emitting speakers to release frequencies that can be fatal to human brains? Like he stole Jerry’s phone to engineer those speakers. There is no way he removed the tie because he did not know humans wear ties, even if he struggled in the robot body due to his high, albeit immature, intelligence.
The most plausible explanation is he did not feel comfortable dressing as a male, even when he planned to masquerade as a male. He knew removing the tie would raise suspicion that it was not the real Jerry, but still chose to do it anyway, which led to the failure of his plans. He has the high intelligence of a human and still chose to remove the tie.
Titus is seen in moments where his consciousness is transformed from “Jerry” back to his butterfly form, as Mabel and the real Jerry, alongside the Animal Council, stop him from his evil plans consciousness was transformed back to his butterfly form. While the butterfly was still voiced by Franco, this was clearly more so due to consistency with his “Jerry” disguise, rather than due to puberty, to make the film less confusing than it already is. After the “Jerry” robot is completely destroyed, he still continues his plans only for him to be eaten by the Amphibian King.
Titus is eaten by the amphibian king (Photo Credit: Pixar)
After his death, an ant is crowned as the new ruler of insects and leads an army of ants to end the destructive chaos. The ant is revealed to be female, a return to the Insect Queen tradition. It is revealed she is queen as shown by the official junior novelization, which was released on January 27, 2026:
The newly appointed Insect Queen led an entire colony of ants onto the dam to help, too.
The new appointed ruler of insects (Photo Credit: Pixar)
If Titus were to be male, why would his successor be female and not a male ant? Titus clearly is an Insect Queen, just like his predecessor and successor. The Insect Prince and Insect King titles were used as deception to reveal and foreshadow his true villain form which is as the male mayor (“Jerry”). Most certainly “Jerry” cannot be queen as he is a human male not just a male insect, and he spends more time as “Jerry” than he does as Titus, so obviously to fit in with his disguise, he was marketed as a male character: from the start as a prince rather than a princess and as a king rather than a queen. At first glance he subverts the trope that insect rulers are often female with his (deliberately false) marketing as a male character, but in actuality he really does not. One may argue he is male because Jerry also only has a mother and no father was seen, but in reality his mother was never a mayor, unlike Titus who comes from an all-female insect hierarchy and clearly is the Insect Queen falsely known as the Insect King due to his “Jerry” disguise.
All of these hints throughout the film reveal that Titus is female rather than male, making “Insect Prince” and “Insect King” deceptive titles. He already has been deceptive before due to how he, rather than Jerry, is the real main antagonist, despite previous promotions deceptively hinting at Jerry being the main antagonist. All of this makes him an even more duplicitous and deceptive villain.
Quotes:
“	Mother, I wish to go home! Now!	„
~ Titus' first quote in the film.	
“	How dare you speak to us in this way, you web-footed commoner!	„
~ Titus scolding Mabel after she called out the council's ignorance.	
“	They squished us! Why shouldn't we squish one of them?	„
~ Titus as his mother plans on killing Jerry as a means to protect the animal kingdom.	
“	M... Mom?	„
~ Titus after his mother is accidentally killed by Mabel.	
“	Squish them!	„
~ Titus ordered the Animal Council to kill Mabel and George.	
“	Titus: SILENCE! Show some respect... (starts to sob)
Fish Queen: Our condolences.
Bird King: Sorry, sorry about that.
Reptile Queen: Sorry for your loss.
Amphibian King: Sorry.
Titus: (his sobs slowly turn to evil chuckles) Spare me your pity! Oh yes! Yes, yes, yes! I've been waiting for this moment for so long! All Hail Titus! THE INSECT KING!	„
~ Titus showing his lack of empathy over his mother's death as he seizes control as the new Insect King by taking his mother's crown.	
“	Human weaponry... clever, but no match for the fury and might of nature! Soon, Jerry shall be squished, his crown at our feet. And then, the real fun can begin. But first... attend me as I pupate!	„
~ Titus announcing his plan to use the Hopper tech for his own ambitions, right before he's about to go through metamorphosis upon becoming a cocoon.	
“	Titus: So weak and small! I like this body better! Don't you agree? (falls into the floor) Oh, c'mon!
Jerry: (screams) What is HAPPENING?! Why does he have my face?!
Titus: (gets back up) Oh, I'm sorry... are you not pleased to see your KING?!	„
~ Titus complimenting on his Jerry hopper before taunting the real Jerry.	
“	What is this... A TAIL for your NECK?! [rips off tie from Jerry's suit] A true king would bear the lushness of its plumage for all to see! [throws it at Jerry's face]
Jerry: Well... I'm gonna lose the re-election.	„
~ Titus don't knowing that humans wear ties.	
“	Mabel: I don't understand, how does a fake Jerry help the council?
Titus: Haha! I'll tell you! Remember THIS?! (shows Jerry's phone, which controls the speakers) We discovered that with a few adjustments, it can be used on humans too! Turns out, if you have enough fake loud trees in one place and put all the humans right in the MIDDLE-
Jerry: The rally!
Titus: -the sound is not just extremely annoying.... IT EXTREMELY SQUISHES YOU! Hehehe.	„
~ Titus revealing his true plan to kill the humans at Jerry's political rally with the usage of the noise-emitting speakers.	
“	Too late! He doesn't want to talk to you, and he's got a party to go to. This guy just LOVES to party, you know? Come on, everyone. Don't want to be late!	„
~ Titus before leaving Mabel and Jerry with George unwillingly following him.	
“	Who here has squished an insect? Who else? Don't be shy. You've all done it. Come on, raise your hands, you little squishers. (almost everyone raises their hands) Boy, it's a good thing an insect can't squish you… because you kinda deserve it, right?	„
~ Titus' first and only attempt to kill the audience.	
“	Nice speech, Too bad it SUCKED! So what? Your plan was to talk? Did you actually think that would work?!	„
~ Titus rejecting Mabel's offer for redemption.	
“	Titus: Shut up and let me finish the job!
George: Sorry, Insect King. I won't let you back in.
Titus: COUNCIL, SEIZE THIS TREASONOUS MILK DRINKER!	„
~ Titus ordering the council to attack George before going back to the Jerry bot.	
“	I'll be back!	„
~ Titus as he goes to get Jerry's phone from the fake tree to activate it, inadvertently exposing himself as a fake to the audience.	
“	Calm down, losers. I'm just getting my phone back.	„
~ Titus.	
“	What is wrong with you?!	„
~ Titus.	
“	Mine! Ha! Time to die, humans!	„
~ Titus attempting to activate the fake tree.	
“	What?!	„
~ Titus realizing that his attempt to kill the humans failed, because his robotic disguise is faceless.	
“	HRGGH! HOW DARE YOU IGNORE ME! I'll BURN THE WHOLE WORLD DOWN! ONLY THE INSECTS WILL RU-	„
~ Titus' last words before getting eaten by the Amphibian King.
Trivia:
Before the film’s premiere, Mayor Jerry was thought to be the main antagonist due to his greed and lack of care for the animals and their homes. However, it was actually a cover for the plot twist when Titus had bigger plans than Jerry does.
He is the second Pixar main villain to be an insect after Hopper who is the main antagonist from A Bug's Life.
Furthermore, Titus has similarities with Hopper; both villains are xenophobic tyrants of a species of anthropomorphic insects (Grasshoppers for Hopper/Insects in general for Titus) who hate a heroic species where the main protagonist belongs (Ants for Hopper/Mammals, Reptiles, Birds, Fishes and Amphibians for Titus), possess a family link (Hopper has Molt as a brother/Titus has the Insect Queen as a mother), and were devoured to death as defeat by a non-insectoid animal (Hopper was fed by the chicks taken by the Bird/Titus is devoured by the Amphibian King by his tongue).
The main difference between the two is that Hopper loved his mother (which is where he promised on her death bed that he wouldn't kill Molt) while Titus outright admitted he didn't care and that he waited for his mother to die so that he can take her place.
He is the 6th Pixar main antagonist to die after Hopper, Syndrome, Charles Muntz, Mor'du, and Ernesto de La Cruz (who died twice).
He and Hopper notably have similar demises, as both were devoured by predators: Titus was devoured by the Amphibian King, whilst Hopper was fed to a trio of baby chicks by their mother.
His demise is also similar to Syndrome as both are killed from being pulled at their back by something: The jet engine for Syndrome and the Amphibian King for Titus.
He is the 8th Pixar main antagonist to not be a twist villain and be revealed early on as a villain after Hopper, Randall Boggs, Syndrome, Chef Skinner, Mor'du, and Lord Grigon.
He is the second Pixar main villain to be small and of short stature after Chef Skinner.
Furthermore, Titus is an insect, while Chief Skinner is a small man. This could mean that Titus is much smaller than Chief Skinner. This makes Titus the smallest villain ever created by Pixar, largely due to his microscopic size.
The name Titus is derived from the Roman emperor of the same name, and the insects and other arthropods that is his people may echo the supremacy of the Roman Empire. Said Roman emperor was also the only one to inherit the position from his parent, reflecting Titus usurping the Insect Queen's position.
Ironically, Titus' name means "honorable", when he's anything but honorable.
Titus' goals to wipe out humanity and vertebrates so arthropods including insects and other invertebrates can take over the world and the animal kingdom mirrors how invertebrates make up the majority of ninety-five percent of the animal kingdom with arthropods as the largest invertebrate phylum and insects as the largest invertebrate class while vertebrates only make up the minority of five percent of the animal kingdom in real life. This is considered accurate as invertebrates evolved before vertebrates due to high production rates, small size, and adaptation to every ecological niche.
Furthermore, Titus shares similarities with Heimlich, a protagonist from the film A Bug's Life; both are plump caterpillars, but there is a difference between these two characters. Heimlich is a heroic caterpillar of a dimwitted nature who struggles to transform into a butterfly at the end of the film, while Titus is a villainous caterpillar with great intelligence who manages to successfully transform into a butterfly after usurping his mother's place following the accidental death of the Insect Queen caused by Mabel.
He and King George are the only members of the Animal Council to have their names revealed.
His design as a caterpillar is similar to Glordon from Elio, another film by Pixar, who also is a prince, but ironically, his personality is the complete opposite to Titus.
Although he is the main antagonist of the film, Titus is the only member of the Animal Council not to wear a crown, although he was originally a caterpillar until Mabel accidentally killed the Insect Queen, who was his mother, so that her son could usurp the position as leader of the Invertebrates.
Titus can be considered a living metaphor of the Butterfly effect, which is known to be an event where a tiny change in the initial stages of a system can cause huge, non-linear consequences elsewhere over time, as shown when Mabel used the Hoppers technology to communicate with the animals, which in turn, caused the animals, led by Titus, who is a literal butterfly to discover the Hoppers technology and use it to create a Hopper version of Jerry to exterminate all of humanity and all vertebrates by using the fake trees.
His revenge plot against humans for squishing and killing bugs is reminiscent to Hopper's in It's Tough to be a Bug!.
Titus serves as a dark foil to the film's main characters:
Mabel: They are both individuals who find themselves in a revolution against humanity for abusing nature. The difference is that Mabel loves and cares about the animals and nature, as well as human lives, while Titus has none of it as he is only using his mother’s death and Jerry’s invasion of the Glade to justify his own hunger for power and misanthropy. He represents what Mabel would've became, if she let her beliefs corrupt her into overall hatred.
George: They are both individuals who are named rulers of the animals of the forest and succeded their parents in their roles. Only difference is that in spite of his strained relationship with his father, George cares for the well being of others, while Titus wanted power to satisfy his bloodlust, and didn't care about the other animals and he didn’t care for his mother. He can represent what George would've become if he wasn't a genuinely passionate king.
Jerry: Even though Jerry is not much better than Titus (even though he was thought to be the main antagonist), because he had a lack of care for animals and their homes, he has a genuine care and love for his mother, unlike Titus who waited for the Insect Queen’s death to take over her role as monarch of the insects. He would've became a tyrannical leader like Titus, if he had let his status and corruption consume him.
Insect Queen: While she's also no better and also wanted the humans squished, she would've ended up like him if she didn't had care for her royal subjects, though she is dead for the rest of the film, after having been accidentally killed by Mabel.
The Council: Despite going along in wanting to fight back against the humans, there are lines they would never cross like mass genocide.
Unnamed Ant: Both are leaders of the insects, although the latter usurped his mother's place, and the Unnamed ant replaced the former Insect Queen after Titus' death in order to have a more redeemable monarchy for the Insect people. Unlike Titus, who abused his power in an attempt to kill all the other animal kingdoms for his own selfish gain, the ant leader immediately used their newfound power to help the rest of the animals extinguish the wildfire, displaying their utter selflessness.
Titus dies when the Amphibian King eats him. However, in real-life, monarch butterflies are poisonous, meaning the Amphibian King would've likely gotten really sick or vomited Titus' remains (which of course would’ve happened offscreen).
Titus' poisonous nature can also be seen as a reflection of his toxic behaviour, as he often displays an incredibly controlling, sadistic and unempathetic personality.
According to a press interview with Dave Franco, Titus was originally meant to do the spider walk from The Exorcist when in the Jerry animatronic. This was cut, however, as filmmakers decided that all of the Jerry animatronic's movements beforehand were creepy enough.
Realistically, Titus’ ultimate goal of wiping out all vertebrates would have been impossible to achieve timewise. Monarch butterflies only have a lifespan of six weeks, which is nowhere near enough time to commit mass genocide, meaning Titus would have died of old age before he was even close to achieving his goal. Seeing as he pupated in less than 2 days, however, it's possible that he and his mother don't follow the conventional life cycle of their species and he could've lived to see it fulfilled.
In real life, monarch butterflies don't have teeth, but Titus and his mom are shown to have; instead, they have what's called proboscises.
Titus expresses all of the Seven Deadly Sins:
Pride: Being born in royalty, Titus put himself above everyone else, including his mother and viewing them as expendable.
Greed: His goal was to become the overlord of all species, as well as stealing Dr. Sam’s ideas of her Hoppers invention and Jerryʻs identity to commit genocide to the humans.
Sloth: He manipulate the Animal Council into doing most of the dirty works and ditched them with no hesitation once they're out of use.
Wrath: He's very short-tempered, and gets angry very easily every time something went wrong or don’t go his way, including letting the wildfire burn down both the glade and the city out of pettiness.
Envy: His main motivation was his jealousy over humans and other animals' dominion all over the world and wanting to take his mother’s place as leader of the insect species. Also, one of the reasons he created a robotic clone of Jerry to hop in was because he found his butterfly body as extremely “weak and small”, heavily implying he was ungrateful for the life he had as an insect.
Gluttony: Even during holy event like having a meeting with the Animal Council, he couldn't stop munching on leaves and was shown to be overweight as a caterpillar. He also has a huge hunger for “squishing” humans after becoming king and creates a robot clone of Jerry to enhance his strength while controlling it.
Lust: He crawls over his mother's total power, to the points he wished for her to die just to get her powers for himself. In addition, he's extremely sadistic, especially towards humans.

Tweets Made By nekomi is unchild  #BOYCOTT143ENT (@johnandmustapha)
[] a thread on titus from hoppers and her descent into villainy and history
TW: spoilers
titus is the main antagonist of hoppers that was first announced on february 6, 2026, exactly a month before the film’s release on march 6, 2026. previously in august 2024, hoppers was announced with mayor jerry as one of the main characters.
after mayor jerry was announced, it was thought that he would be the main antagonist due to promotional materials making him appear as if he was going to as such.
hoppers tells the story about mabel tanaka, a 19 year old girl, and how she disguises herself transferring her conscience to a female beaver robot, in attempts to stop mayor jerry’s development plans which would ruin the animal habitat.
only for after meeting the animal council she accidentally squishes the insect queen (titus’ mother) which leads titus, who was the bratty heir of the insect queen, to declare herself as heir.
now onto titus’ family. she has only a mother. we never see her father nor do we see her siblings. she is only present with several small butterflies which we are unsure of who they are plus her mother.
after titus’ mother dies, the animal council, which are the other monarchs for their respective species were hesitant to hail her as king. 
while it is often claimed it is because she is too young, she was supposed to be the next heiress to the insect queen throne.
as shown when the truth is she had to attend the council as shown when she cried to her mother she wanted to go home. 
the most plausible reason was they questioned how a female insect could be king.
her declaration of being king was in fact used to hint at her later plans to  masquerade as jerry, she uses human hopper technology and pupates herself.
once she finishes pupating almost immediately he introduces himself as the robot version of jerry, the false antagonist.
robot jerry removes his tie, claiming and complaining how its a tail for his neck. while it is often symbolism for masculinity for his case his mention of the plumage despite being a male robot is remiscent of a seductive femme fatale.
he knew what he was doing. she orchestrated this entire plan to manipulate hoppers technology for her misanthropic plans. she basically engineered this robot. she knows humans wear ties. 
she feels uncomfortable presenting masculine because it is her first time disguising.
but she knows what she is doing so it isnt really proof she wasnt aware more so she didnt feel comfortable. 
then as he confronts mabel at the rally and mabel and jerry stop him, he eventually loses his conscience as the male robot and is eaten by the amphibian king.
after she dies, she is succeeded by an ant which is revealed in the junior novelization to be female.
female ants usually rule ant colonies, the same applies with beavers though king george is male.
george has some feminine qualities as he has a pink radio. no matter whose radio it was it doesnt really show he is female though. 
while this would justify it if she were a real life beaver, his lineage history says otherwise due to his father and uncle being male.
ants and beavers dont have as much of feminine symbolism as butterflies (ants have more than beavers but not as much as butterflies). 
so if titus were male it wouldve made more sense if the ant was male but they didnt make it male.
titus, as a caterpillar, was voiced by eman abdul-razzak, a female pixar lighting artist. 
while females can and do voice young boys due to pitch similarity, titus sounds much more distinctive, like a bratty woman rather than a spoiled boy, unlike most female voiced boys.
in the japanese dub the caterpillar was voiced by ikue otani. while most actresses as young boys would cosplay to fit the gender of the role, during an official promotion showcasing actors dressing as their characters, titus presented more feminine than the fish queen.
the fact that this is an official promotion really shows the intention and shows that insect prince and insect king were merely used to foreshadow robot jerry rather than as true titles held as an insect, given in the movie she was not referred to as a prince, only in credits.
as a monarch butterfly she was voiced by dave franco. 
however it is implied he mainly voiced robot jerry rather than the butterfly, given the lack of screentime she received. while dave franco did voice the butterfly she would soon be eaten or regain conscience as robot jerry.
why did titus need a male voice for her robot? if she didnt engineer the male voice for her robot, she would have sounded female like she did as a caterpillar and implied butterfly too if it got more screentime, which would have clocked everyone from the start jerry was fake.

Date effective: April 26, 2026