This document is about Pawbert Lynxley of Zootopia 2, or is it really?
When Disney released the first official poster for Zootopia 2 on April 10, 2024, multiple characters were teased. One character that was teased was the lynx biker in a green sweater and yellow helmet. As fans came up with theories about who the new characters might be or what the plot would be like, it was often theorized the lynx was going to be a girl rather than a boy, despite possessing a motorcycle, which often is seen as masculine due to the initial perception that only men can ride bikes, and wearing a gender neutral sweater. It was to the point in the Zootopia 2 bingo, which Jared Bush, one of the co-directors of the film, later commented on, one of the entries was "Lynx (?) character is a girl".
On May 20, 2025, a teaser trailer for Zootopia 2 was released, which featured a lynx in a green sweater. It was believed the lynx was not the same person as the lynx biker due to its sinister expressions, though that was later debunked in later teasers. When the movie poster for Zootopia 2 came out on July 30, 2025, it featured a lynx with eyelashes. Because the lynx was unnamed and had lashes, it was still predicted to be a girl. While some believed it was male and referred to it with male pronouns because of the teaser trailer, those claims were refuted by another fan. However, this refutation was later "debunked" regarding the lynx's gender to be female after it was revealed on September 15, 2025 that his name was Pawbert Lynxley and that he would be voiced by Andy Samberg. It is commonly believed that Pawbert Lynxley is a male villain because:
1. His voice actor, Andy Samberg, is male.
2. His name "Pawbert" is a cat pun on the name "Robert", a traditional masculine given name of Germanic origin.
3. The script for Zootopia 2 refers to Pawbert using "he/him" pronouns, so does the description for his concept art and the junior novelization.
At first glance, his role as a parallel to Prince Hans from Frozen strengthens this argument. Both Pawbert and Hans betrayed the heroes. For Pawbert's case it was Gary De'Snake, Judy Hopps, Nibbles Maplestick, and Nick Wilde, though he was mostly a partner to Gary and false ally to him and Judy; for Hans it was Anna and her sister Elsa. Pawbert froze Gary, similar to how Hans froze Anna. Pawbert's fight with Nick can be compared to Hans' fight with Elsa. In addition, according to the junior novelization, his motive was to become heir of the Lynxley family, just as Hans' motivation was to seize power and become a king. Both were neglected by their families: Pawbert was abused and neglected by his father Milton and bullied by his siblings Cattrick and Kitty, and Hans was neglected by his twelve older brothers and father but loved by his mother, and both are the youngest in rich families: Hans is a prince of the Southern Isles while Pawbert is a Lynxley (rich lynx). In the junior novelization, he was ambitious and sadistic about seizing the Lynxley throne, which is similar to Hans' goals to seize the throne. However, despite his similarities with Hans, which supposedly strengthens the claim that he is male, aside from canon pronouns and voice actor, this nevertheless can actually can be refuted.
Unlike Prince Hans, who is charming, Pawbert displays a clumsy, awkward persona, which is more associated with female characters. Pawbert's backstory, in addition to his personality, is also more feminized compared to Hans. Hans is the youngest of his family and has twelve older brothers who emotionally and physically bully and abuse him; one of his brothers Lars treated Hans with considerable difference; wile his father was neglectful and enabled his brothers' abuse towards him, his mother was much more loving towards him though she concealed his discomfort during gatherings; nevertheless this led Hans to despite his family. Pawbert's backstory is at first glance similar: he has siblings and parents who neglect or abuse him. However, Pawbert was treated like a disposable object unlike Hans; he was grabbed and dropped to the ground by Milton after he found out Pawbert potentially was betraying his family; although Pawbert, after this abuse scene, revealed he never betrayed his family and was helping his family destroy the De'Snake legacy to protect the Lynxleys name and after that Milton says he may be a real Lynxley and he should go destroy the patent and he obeys, it still shows how horrible of a father Milton is and how he treats Pawbert like an object, which historically has often been associated with the treatment of youngest daughters in households of rich, abusive families. After Pawbert failed in his plans and his entire family was arrested, Milton continues to ignore him after Pawbert reads him the "Partnerships for Dummies" book. While Hans was never forced into servitude in his childhood, Pawbert was forced to work in the mailroom despite his status as a member of a rich, influential family.
In the junior novelization, Pawbert's goals were ambition to become heir of the Lynxley family, similar to Hans' motives to usurp the throne of Arendelle; like Hans, he was sadistic. However in the movie, his actions were toned down: his motives were changed from heir-seeking to approval-seeking and even after his true colors were shown, he maintains his awkwardness and clumsiness; he wanted to destroy the De'Snake legacy to protect the Lynxley reputation so that he could seek approval and belonging from his father and family, as compensation for the neglect he went through. Pawbert's masculine motivations in the junior novelization clashed with the misogynistic treatment he faced, so his motives needed to be changed, unlike Prince Hans' motivations which did not clash as much with his backstory as Pawbert's original motivations did. Throughout much of recorded history and in many patriarchal storytelling traditions, men have been associated with dominance, inheritance, and control, while women have been culturally associated with relational value, such as being loved, accepted, or belonging to a family or social unit. Pawbert's motives (at least in the movie) aligns with this framework. Rather than seeking power to be the heir of the Lynxley family, his motives were driven by personal instability and a desperate need to belong.
Pawbert is not only adapted from Hans but feminized, but he is a dark archetype of Cinderella, as he was neglected, abused, and forced into servitude by his father just like the latter heroine. Prince Hans also shares similarities though he is less similar as he was never forced into servitude and he was more so neglected and bullied by his older brothers than he was abused by his parents.
Cinderella is a folk tale with thousands of folk tales worldwide. The oldest known oral version of this story is the ancient Greek story of Rhodopis, a Greek slave girl in Egypt whose sandal is stolen by an eagle and dropped into the lap of the Pharaoh, leading him to find and eventually marry her. Ye Xian, a Chinese fairy tale first published in the Tang dynasty compilation Miscellaneous Morsels from Youyang by Duan Chengshi, tells the story of Ye Xian, a mistreated orphan who after her father's death was forced to work as a servant by her wicked stepmother and half-sister, but later eventually marries a king with the help of a magical fish's bones and a lost golden slipper. The Korean story Kongjwi and Patjwi tells the story of Kongjwi and her stepsister Patjwi; Kongjwi's mother died leading for her father to marry a widow and her father passes away shortly after; Kongjwi's stepfamily abuse her by starving, beating, and working her brutally; she overcomes it and tries to escape it through magical animals and a fairy, who help her marry a magistrate; after the marriage she is killed and reincarnated many times and eventually seeks revenge by killing Patjwi turning her flesh into jeotgal (preserved seafood) to feed to her stepmother. The Story of Tấm and Cám, from Vietnam, has similar themes to the story Kongjwi and Patjwi.
All these ancient adaptations are part of the evolution of the most common adaptation of Cinderella (featured in the Disney films adapting Cinderella and loosely based on the classic tales by Charles Perrault and the Brothers Grim). While Charles Perrault's version is not the earliest version of Cinderella, it is an early influential literary version. While the stepsisters were less cruel compared to the previous versions, in later adaptations their cruelty was intensified. The most common story of Cinderella tells the story of a girl who, after her father's death, is abused and forced into servitude by her stepmother and bullied by her stepsiblings, but eventually attends the ball, thanks to a fairy godmother, and falls in love with a prince who identifies her by a lost glass slipper. There are also modern adaptations of the Cinderella story. As this can show, many of these Cinderella stories share a common theme: a girl who loses her parent, raised by her stepfamily, abused by her stepsibling(s), and forced into servitude, yet eventually finds a way out (in many cases its finding and eventually marrying a prince after she loses one shoe). Pawbert Lynxley's story is one of them.
The Lynxley family consists of the patriarch Milton, older twin siblings Cattrick (brother) and Kitty (sister) and youngest son Pawbert. There is no mother in this family; it is often theorized that either Pawbert's mother died after giving birth to him or that she was killed by Milton himself. This is similar to Cinderella's father, who died shortly after he married her stepmother. Cinderella is raised by her stepmother, while Pawbert is raised by his father Milton. Both the stepmother and the father are abusive. In addition, he has the same number of siblings as the most adapted version of Cinderella, which is two; while Cinderella had two stepsisters, Pawbert has two older siblings. Cinderella was forced to be a scullery maid in her household, while Pawbert was forced to work in the mailroom, despite the fact that in rich families, servants were the ones usually in charge of servant work such as sorting mail or housekeeping, not family members. Pawbert is the runt of his family; he is bullied by his siblings and abused and forced into servitude (in his case mailroom worker) by his father; Cinderella is also seen as a threat to her stepfamily and is bullied by her stepsisters and mocked by them while she was abused and forced into servitude by her stepmother. Pawbert eventually overcomes his background by smuggling Gary, a pit viper, into Zootopia as part of a deal with Antony Snootley, an anteater crime boss, then bumping into Judy on purpose during the gala where Gary unexpectedly shows up and eventually becomes partners with Gary, then the two meet Judy helping her though eventually Pawbert betrays both Judy and Gary. This is a villainous twist from the original Cinderella. He meets the "prince"(Gary De'Snake) but instead of marrying and falling in love through a lost glass slipper, uses him as part of an evil plan to destroy the De'Snake legacy given the De'Snake-Lynxley family feud to finally gain his father's approval and love.
In the Zootopia 2 promotional posters, Pawbert had eyelashes. Even though both male and female animals (including humans) have eyelashes in real life, male animated characters are rarely, if ever, depicted with eyelashes. Pawbert is a rare case of what would supposedly be a male character with eyelashes. While some male characters with eyelashes remain masculine, the fact that he has eyelashes, when paired with his backstory and personality, it paints a different picture on his part.
Albeit all his villainy, name and voice actor, he was based on Cinderella but villainized with elements borrowed from Prince Hans, all of his evil plans were done for feminized motives, and he retains his feminine personality even after revealing his true nature, showing he (or rather she) is best interpreted as a villainess (female villain), rather than a standard male villain, in Zootopia 2.
But wait, will he be announced as female or is his femininity unintentional? He is just a very feminine male character and does not show the experiences of a female enough. While he is very insecure and has lashes, males can have lashes too. Plus, he is the son of a male patriarchy and he never wanted to be different from his family, and once he revealed his true colors he becomes very masculine, albeit awkward and insecure due to the weapons he uses to hurt others. His only feminine traits account to bog standard insecurities which many male characters have had as well as wearing sweaters which he shows a masculine appearance, and as such he is not a female character and does not really make sense as one, though he does make a good candidate as a headcanon for transfem due to his differences from his family members. Due to his obviously masculine voice and male presentation, he does not qualify. 
Especially when we compare it with Gary De’Snake. When a video posted on YouTube featured pastel dolls for the Zootopia 2 characters and another video featured Kpop Demon Hunters characters dressed as Zootopia 2 characters, this sparked debate on whether Pawbert is a villainess or a male villain, as both presented Pawbert as male while Gary is presented as female, despite previous claims Pawbert was feminine, while one shipped Gary and Pawbert as if they were a couple despite both being supposedly canonically male and Pawbert being more feminine than Gary, Gary was the girl in the relationship, portrayed by HUNTR/X Mira, while Pawbert was the boy, portrayed by Saja Boys member Abby. After this, more evidence was found about Gary being a girl, so the shift was to him rather than Pawbert. More clues were found about Gary De’Snake being possibly announced as a female character by Disney.
Nick Wilde claimed "We got him. Or her. Reptiles, it’s like, who knows?" after he and Judy Hopps hit Gary with the pan. While at first glance it means Reptiles genders are hard to tell, the “or her” hints something deeper due to Nick’s suspicions and his history of being able to detect lies and his reputation as a sly, guile fox.
Gary De’Snake has an anti-venom pen, voiced by Auliʻi Cravalho, which contains his head on top of the pen. It is possible it is his true voice but it remains unknown.
Gary is neutral and not masc/fem as a snake and doesn't wear clothes unlike reptiles like Jesus, making his gender very ambiguous.
Gary has a more neutral voice by Ke Huy Quan in the English version and similar in his other versions.
Gary comes from a matriarchy, with his great grandmother Agnes De’Snake, while Pawbert comes from a patriarchy, with his great grandfather Ebenezer Lynxley. It is very rare for females to be founders as we have seen throughout human history. There is a reason Gary’s grandmother is female despite being the founder of Zootopia and why Pawbert’s grandfather remained male.
What will Disney announce: 
“Gary De’Snake is a female snake. If you saw the easter eggs in the movie, you would see Wilde saying “or her”. As a sly fox, Wilde has a strong ability to tell lies. Also Gary’s anti venom pen is voiced by Auliʻi Cravalho, and the tip of the pen resembles his (or should I say her) head. The ancestry is another hint”
That Gary is female. Doesn’t mean he identifies as female or is feminine. None of the clues show he is feminine.
What Disney won’t announce:
“Pawbert Lynxley is a girl it is hinted by her feminine qualities even though she wore a suit 
Gary De’Snake is a girl it is hinted by her femininity”
They are a company that doesn’t make characters trans canonically, only implied, as we see with Pawbert who came from a patriarchy but due to femininity she rebelled against it and faced misogyny despite being supposedly canonically male.
Gary De’Snake isn't underdeveloped unlike Pawbert, but his story has some easter eggs that hint to him being “female”. Ultimately all the attempts made for Gary being a girl rather than Pawbert is misguided, as these only point that he is biologically female and canonically a female snake. None of the evidence points out that he is feminine. He is not feminine unlike Pawbert, he is a neutral snake who even leans masculine due to his bravery. Disney never had intentions to make Pawbert female, its just unintentionally he became seen as feminine to the audience due to the way they perceive him. 
Gary to some extent stands out and could be announced as female rather than Pawbert Lynxley from Zootopia 2. The truth is however, he does not stand out. There is a perfect candidate though, which is not from Zootopia 2, but from Hoppers.
King George, who was voiced by Bobby Moynihan? Well, he could be female because of his stereo radio, which is pink and purple and of girly color, and even then we don’t know if he was the owner or not plus even if he was boys could be feminine and that in real life George cannot be a king because female beavers rule a colony and males don’t. 
But even then beavers do not have feminine symbolism unlike butterflies despite them being matriarchies, and George shows no other female traits aside from the radio we aren’t even sure who the owner is and basic biology which is ignorable, plus he also has a mustache and his hierarchy consists of his abusive father, who is a male, as well as his uncle, also a male and there is no implication he is female as if he were his father or uncle would’ve been also female plus he wouldn’t have a mustache and he does not have a feminine nature and making him female due to these 2 reasons would have also changed drastically making it more confusing and unnecessary.
Truthfully, neither of those three stand out compared to Titus, the main antagonist of Pixar’s film Hoppers.
First of all, unlike Gary or Pawbert of Zootopia 2 or King George in Hoppers, Titus was voiced by a female actress in US, Korea, and Japan, something neither Gary or Pawbert were voiced by. As a monarch caterpillar, she was voiced by Eman Abdul-Razzak. In Korea the little girl was voiced by Suji Lee, and in Japan she was voiced by Ikue Otani. In Latin America she was voiced by a young boy, Elian Garcés, but this is not a Freudian excuse. While she is female she has a boyish nature at times due to being falsely promoted as the Insect Prince, despite acting like a bratty girl in a feminine way, which is why she is voiced by young boys. It is a common tradition for women to play young boys due to the similar pitch of their voices. However, Miguel Rivera of Coco, Andy Davis of Toy Story, and Nemo of Finding Nemo were both voiced by males even as children. Miguel was voiced by Anthony Gonzales in English and Luis Angel Gomez Jaramillo in Spanish. In LEGO The Incredibles, he is voiced by Alex Gonzalez. In LEGO Pixar: Bricktoons, he is voiced by Ryan Anderson Lopez. Andy was voiced by John Morris in the first two movies and as a teenager in the third movie, and by Charlie Bright and Jack McGraw in the third and fourth movies respectively. Nemo is voiced by Alexander Gould in the first film (who would later voice the title character in Bambi 2) and Hayden Rolence in the sequel. While Titus could technically be male and be voiced by a female and while some dubs like the Spanish dub voiced her by young boys, she sounded more like a girl especially in the original dub as females and young boys do have a small distinction in their voices, and Eman did not get training unlike female actresses trained for boy roles. There is a reason a non-actor played Titus in Hoppers. 
While Titus was voiced by male actors all the time as an adult, such as Dave Franco in the original version, he was mostly voiced for his Robot Jerry form, and we barely if ever see the butterfly form. After she pupates herself she immediately transforms herself into the male Jerry Robot rather than having Franco voice the butterfly as he becomes the robot himself. This shows or is treated almost as if Dave Franco was the robot voice rather than Titus’ genuine voice. While Dave is a known actor and was starred rather than Eman and Eman isn't an actress, this was because Titus spent more time as the male Robot than he did as her true form which is a female monarch butterfly and formerly caterpillar. In addition, his voice never truly dropped as Dave Franco was implied to be the robots voice rather than Titus’ own voice, plus while he did get screentime as the butterfly it was mostly lazy editing or because he would almost immediately become Robot Jerry again  that Dave rather than Eman voiced him and heavily implied that had she spent more time as a butterfly Eman would have a higher chance then Dave on voicing the butterfly. 
Plus not to forget she only pupated herself after her mothers death and it is implied it isn't puberty and that she was always an adult who delayed puberty due to selfishness, spoiled and her desire for her mother to die so she can steal the throne and become Insect Queen. When Titus declared herself king, they were hesitant to hail her as king not because she didn't care for her mothers death, as they knew she was the heir to the Insect queen lineage, but because she is female and as such she cannot be a legitimate king. However they hail her anyway as despite these suspicions a female could not be king, they nevertheless reap their benefits that they are curious to see what her plans are up to and are excited to see how she would hurt Jerry. 
Even if Titus’ voice or age was not an excusable factor or we erase that factor, she clearly struggles with masculinity too. When Robot Jerry removes his tie, he questions sadistically if it is a tail for his neck. While Villains Wiki claims its because Titus did not know humans wear ties, it is implied she knew of it knowing she engineered this robot herself and she had genius intelligence despite her immaturity of how to squish humans. This is more so because she did not feel comfortable with her male disguise even if it hurted her when he masquerated as Jerry at the rally and she does have some femme fatale instincts even as a male robot knowing she claimed a true “king” should show off “his” plumage which is reminiscent of femme fatales showing off their bodies in the way she speaks (in her robot male voice ofc cus he is the male robot at the time its controlled by a female butterfly so basically a male robot with a females brain and engineering) is more of a female showing off her body than a male showing off his masculinity. Not to forget, the way she says tail for neck, she pretended she didnt know but truly it is because she didnt feel comfortable in the male disguise, making her a hyperfem bratty woman rather than a tomboyish girl with the tomboyish motives of ambition, power hungry sadism, and tyranny.
Not to forget, we never knew who Titus’ father was. All we know is she is the spoiled, bratty spawn of the Insect Queen (Meryl Streep) and that after her mother’s death she cried only to show her true colors that she did noot care about her mothers death and that she delibreratly waited for her mother to die, even stealing her crown and mocking those who pity her death through her fake sorrow and moruning of her mothers death, to become the next Insect Queen. Plus, after Titus was eaten by the Amphibian King (Steve Purcell), the next successor, an ant due to butterflies not being available to rule for whatever reason, is a female. If Titus was male, at least the ant could have been male, especially given King George’s situation and how it did not suffice.